---
title: "Amazon warned of 'lumpy' cloud trends. Why these analysts aren't worried."
date: "2025-02-08 00:10:53"
summary: "By Emily Bary Amazon held cloud revenue growth steady when rivals couldn't. And analysts say the company wouldn't be spending so much on AI if it didn't see strong long-term demand. Amazon.com Inc.'s cloud business has grown at a 19% clip in each of the last three quarters. Should investors..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Emily Bary

Amazon held cloud revenue growth steady when rivals couldn't. And analysts say the company wouldn't be spending so much on AI if it didn't see strong long-term demand.

Amazon.com Inc.'s cloud business has grown at a 19% clip in each of the last three quarters. Should investors be worried that Chief Executive Andy Jassy predicted "lumpy" growth ahead?

Not so, some analysts say. MoffettNathanson's Michael Morton urged investors to focus on other commentary instead. For example, he was encouraged that Jassy spoke of capacity constraints that have kept AWS from growing even more. The company wouldn't be spending up to procure more capacity if it didn't have a strong long-term read on demand, according to Jassy.

See also: Amazon's outlook underwhelms as tech giant forecasts 'lumpy' cloud growth in years ahead

"Please, let's not allow 'we expect growth will be lumpy over the next few years' to be the key takeaway here," Morton wrote. "Andy Jassy told the Street AWS is constrained and can grow faster when it's lifted in the second half of the year. Sure, they did not utter the words accelerate, but this is as close as we are going to get."

Plus, Amazon (AMZN) did what its cloud rivals Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) and Alphabet Inc. (GOOGL) couldn't: It held AWS growth steady, while those competitors saw cloud revenue decelerate. Morton thinks Amazon is in a good spot because its cloud strategy aligns with the growing school of thought that artificial-intelligence models could become a commodity.

D.A. Davidson's Gil Luria was similarly upbeat. "We continue to believe that AWS is the best positioned of the three hyperscalers, as conversations with ... experts indicate that Amazon has quickly caught up and now surpassed [Microsoft's] Azure in AI-related services," he wrote.

Don't miss: Alphabet is showing the downside of being an AI stock

While Amazon's suggestion that it could spend upward of $100 billion on capital expenditures this year may be eye-popping, Luria saw another way of looking at the company's spending commentary: The company is getting more disciplined.

How so? Amazon "highlighted the deployment of their latest Trainium 2 chips which will help the hyperscaler deliver more cost-efficient compute to its data centers for specialized AI workloads," Luria wrote. Trainium is Amazon's family of custom chips.

Mizuho's James Lee called out efficiency benefits as well. "Besides capacity, management believes the mix shift to custom ASICs" - or application-specific integrated circuits "and innovations in model training could meaningfully drive down computing costs to accelerate adoption of AI," he wrote.

Still, Amazon shares are down about 4% in morning trading Thursday following the AWS comments and a miss on the overall first-quarter revenue outlook.

Another factor to watch: Cloud margins as Amazon suggested AI infrastructure could get depreciated more quickly than initially thought. "While AI is the prize, and Amazon is also capacity-constrained alongside cloud peers, compressing server useful life may raise uncomfortable ROIC questions if the demand doesn't show up," wrote Bernstein's Mark Shmulik, referring to returns on invested capital.

At least 19 analysts raised their price targets on Amazon's stock after the report, according to FactSet data.

-Emily Bary

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-07-25 1103ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250207215/amazon-warned-of-lumpy-cloud-trends-why-these-analysts-arent-worried)
