---
title: "Trump, Congress budget talks send risks soaring for Social Security and Medicare"
date: "2025-02-08 00:50:50"
summary: "By Brett Arends Deficits galore are threatening Americans' retirement security The latest news on budget talks between President Donald Trump and the Republican-controlled Congress indicates that the financial risks to Social Security and Medicare, as well as to the entire government, are getting drastically worse, not better. The nonpartisan Committee..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Brett Arends

Deficits galore are threatening Americans' retirement security

The latest news on budget talks between President Donald Trump and the Republican-controlled Congress indicates that the financial risks to Social Security and Medicare, as well as to the entire government, are getting drastically worse, not better.

The nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget estimates that a budget-resolution deal reportedly being considered by the leadership of the House of Representatives "would increase additional borrowing by about 30 percent over the next decade, to a record 133 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) by 2035 - nearly doubling the debt growth expected under current law."

It also calculates that budget proposals being discussed by Trump and Republican leaders in the House would drive the national debt up even further, potentially sending it as high as 149% of GDP by 2035.

The Congressional Budget Office has already repeatedly warned that the U.S. government is on an "unsustainable" fiscal path. The national debt, which currently stands at $28 trillion, or 100% of annual GDP, is forecast almost to double over the next 10 years, to $52 trillion. That's excluding the extra $4 trillion or $5 trillion that will be added to it if the 2017 tax cuts are extended beyond the end of this year.

But those numbers ignore the separate, parallel and much greater financial crisis Uncle Sam is facing when it comes to the retirement plan Americans rely on for their golden years. According to the Medicare trustees, Social Security and Medicare effectively have a $78 trillion hole in their accounts, or nearly three times annual GDP.

Social Security is now just one decade away from running out of money, according to the program's trustees. Unless something is done, in 2035 the program, under current law, would be forced to slash benefits by 24.6% - across the board.

The program has already been costing taxpayers more than it has been bringing in through payroll taxes since 2021 (and by another measure, since 2010).

Meanwhile, the Medicare trust fund covering hospital services, known as Part A, is scheduled to run out of money one year later, in 2036, according to that program's trustees.

Conducting budget talks without considering these programs is like a spendthrift looking only at the debt on his Visa card and ignoring the even bigger debt on his American Express bill. These obligations have arisen in large part because of one simple fact: People are living longer - much longer - than they did in the past.

This budget crisis poses an existential risk to the 83 million Americans who will be 65 or older in a few decades' time and who will need to rely on both programs for their income and their health.

And that doesn't even include, for example, all the seniors who rely on Medicaid to pay for their nursing home or long-term care. Contrary to the general assumption, Medicare does not pay for nursing-home stays except in very limited, and generally short-term, circumstances.

Former Vice President Dick Cheney famously said that "Reagan proved that deficits don't matter." But when Ronald Reagan became president in 1981 and immediately launched a massive deficit-financed boom, the national debt was 24% of gross domestic product. When George W. Bush and Cheney took office in 2001 and did the same thing, it was just 31% of GDP. In 2008, before the deficit spree associated with the global financial crisis, it was still only 40%. And at the start of Donald Trump's first term in 2017 it was 75%.

Today the national debt is 100% of GDP, the highest level since the end of World War II, and even if the 2017 tax cuts are allowed to expire at the end of this year, it is expected to rise to around 120% of GDP within 10 years. This would be the highest ratio on record - higher even than the one in 1945 - and nearly five times as high as it was when Reagan first took office.

Interest on the current national debt already exceeds the budget for Medicare.

Complacency about this is like the joke about the man who jumped off the top of the Empire State Building. He fell past the 80th floor, then the 60th floor and then the 40th floor. As he passed the 20th floor he shouted, "So far, so good!" Deficits don't matter - until they do.

-Brett Arends

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-07-25 1137ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250207221/trump-congress-budget-talks-send-risks-soaring-for-social-security-and-medicare)
