---
title: "My friend, 62, may only have weeks to live. How does he prevent his second wife from inheriting everything?"
date: "2025-02-07 23:00:59"
summary: "By Quentin Fottrell 'He received a $250K inheritance last year' Dear Quentin, I just visited my 62-year-old friend in the hospital and am dumbfounded. Last July, he fell stacking logs at his house and injured his back. He went to the emergency room, where he was told to take it..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Quentin Fottrell

'He received a $250K inheritance last year'

Dear Quentin,

I just visited my 62-year-old friend in the hospital and am dumbfounded. Last July, he fell stacking logs at his house and injured his back. He went to the emergency room, where he was told to take it easy and given some pain meds. He seemed to improve. In October, he went on a trip to drive his ATV and reinjured his back. He went to the emergency room again, scans were made and he was told he had fractures in his spine. He was told to stay in bed and move around as little as possible until his injuries healed.

He is disabled and on Medicare because of multiple organ transplants - two livers and a kidney - but his wife is employed. Just last week he fell again at home, and this time the pain was so great he was bedridden. His wife took him to the hospital the next day and again scans were made. This time, he was given a diagnosis of stage four cancer. Because of his organ transplants, chemotherapy is not an option. If he gets stronger and can do radiation, they may be able to extend his life from a week or two to six months, maybe longer.

'His big wish is for his son to get the house after his wife dies. At this point, what can be done? He was weak, and it was hard to determine what his will says.'

Most of our visit was spent talking about memories we had and about his end-of-life wishes. He has a 30-year-old son and two grandchildren, and his wife is stepmother to his son. He received a $250,000 inheritance last year and would like to take that money and pay off his $150,000 mortgage so that his wife will have the house paid off. I don't know the interest rate. His big wish is for his son to get the house after his wife dies. At this point, what can be done? He was weak, and it was hard to determine what his will says.

Assuming he gets stronger and doesn't die soon, what is the best course of action? Obviously, see a lawyer. I have seen letters where one spouse dies and the children don't get what the will specifies. Is some kind of trust better? I have no reason to distrust his wife, but I don't know her very well. At this point, does he just hope everything works out OK? From what I know, I don't think his wife can afford the house on her income alone. She has worked as a waitress in a local restaurant for over 20 years.

Without his disability checks, his wife might end up having to sell the house. She would like to retire, but I don't know how much Social Security she would get on her own or using his earnings history. They have no savings other than the $250,000 from the inheritance. I wish I had known about this months and years ago so I could have helped, but I never felt it was my place to ask. It all feels so pointless and discouraging. I feel the big lesson here is not to put off estate planning and to ensure your wishes are followed - especially if a stepparent is involved.

A Friend

Related: 'How do I shield my retirement savings?' I'm worried about Trump's trade war and Fed's willingness to cut interest rates

Dear Friend,

The good news, if your friend wishes his son to receive a large portion of his estate. Inheritance is deemed separate property, as long as he has not commingled it in a joint account with his wife. So he can legitimately and fairly - in my opinion, although everyone's definition of fair is different - leave that $250,000 to his son. If he did deposit it in a joint account, that money would be considered marital property. But your friend's fragile health will likely be a factor in whether he can make 11th-hour changes to his estate plan.

Your friend can make a will, if he has not done so already, and presuming he purchased his home prior to his second marriage - notwithstanding the laws of his state on homestead rules, which vary - he can leave his home as a life estate to his second wife, giving her the right to live in and maintain the house during her lifetime. He could also set up a trust to pay for property taxes and reasonable upkeep of the property during that time, including paying off his mortgage. But given his situation, he should act swiftly.

Something to consider: Your friend may wish to have his cognitive abilities evaluated by a doctor, because he must be of sound mind to make a will or sign any kind of legal document regarding his estate. He must also do so without undue influence or coercion. "In order to be considered of 'sound mind,' you must possess the mental capacity to understand the nature of creating a will, have awareness of your property and beneficiaries, act independently without undue influence, and maintain consistency with your past wishes and behavior," according to the law firm of Rice Murtha Psoras.

Marital trusts are especially important for blended families. These allow each spouse to ensure that their respective children are taken care of if they die before their spouse. A stepmother or stepfather may promise their spouse and stepchildren the world while both parties are living but, as this column can attest, they are often capable of making a swift U-turn upon the death of their spouse. In addition to making sure that a person's wishes are fulfilled posthumously, marital trusts have other benefits.

If vultures arrive when their prey is at its weakest, you are the opposite: You are a dove, a bringer of hope and light.

"Poor planning can lead to a race for survival between spouses," according to Aging in Maine, a practice of Kevin Weatherbee Law Offices. "A will can be changed at any time; therefore a surviving spouse could change his will after the death of the first spouse, leaving nothing for the first spouse's children. Another common occurrence is for each spouse to name the other as a beneficiary on accounts or pieces of real property. Doing so will not allow the bank account, piece of property or other type of asset to pass to anyone else, regardless of what their estate planning documents provide."

The firm continues: "A trust, however, can allow a spouse/parent to 'rule from the grave.' At the death of the first spouse, half of the trust assets can be locked down. With this type of planning, each spouse can have the assurance that their share of the trust assets (or one half) will pass to their children, grandchildren or any other person they wish. The remaining assets are used for the surviving spouse, and will then pass as that spouse wishes." Furthermore: "If the couple creates identical wills such that their assets pass to the survivor of them, there is a significant likelihood their children will be disinherited."

Your friend's wife may very well be eligible for survivor benefits on his Social Security. She may be eligible if she is 60 or older, or is between the ages of 50 and 59 and has a disability, and if they were married for at least nine months before your friend's passing and she doesn't remarry before age 60, or 50 if she has a disability. That all goes for his first wife, too: "Ex-spouses who were married for at least 10 years, as well as some valid nonmarital legal relationships, may be eligible," the agency says. Read more here.

If vultures arrive when their prey is at its weakest, looking for ways they can turn a bad situation to their own advantage, you are the opposite of that. You know what you are? You are a dove, a bringer of hope and light. The biggest investment this man made during his lifetime was in people like you - friends who have his back during this difficult time, when he is most vulnerable. It is, more than money or a big house or fame or a big fat 401(k), the sign of a life well lived. I only hope you can help him make the necessary arrangements.

I hope your friend gets more time, and that he has a comfortable quality of life in the time that remains.

Related: 'I've dealt with verbal, emotional and financial abuse for many years': I'm 48 and my husband is 84. I need a job and want out of this marriage.

You can email The Moneyist with any financial and ethical questions at qfottrell@marketwatch.com, and follow Quentin Fottrell on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter.

The Moneyist regrets he cannot reply to questions individually.

More columns from Quentin Fottrell:

'I paid for everything from day one': My husband barely worked during our marriage. Can I leave my $500,000 IRA to my son?

'We are shocked and upset': My mother died and her second husband said he now owns everything. Is this true?

'I trust that my husband isn't a gold digger': I'm inheriting millions of dollars. My husband says I'm 'selfish' to keep it. Should I share it?

Check out The Moneyist's private Facebook group, where members help answer life's thorniest money issues. Post your questions, or weigh in on the latest Moneyist columns.

By emailing your questions to The Moneyist or posting your dilemmas on The Moneyist Facebook group, you agree to have them published anonymously on MarketWatch.

By submitting your story to Dow Jones & Co., the publisher of MarketWatch, you understand and agree that we may use your story, or versions of it, in all media and platforms, including via third parties.

-Quentin Fottrell

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-07-25 0946ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250207194/my-friend-62-may-only-have-weeks-to-live-how-does-he-prevent-his-second-wife-from-inheriting-everything)
