---
title: "Treasury yields spike after solid revisions to jobs data for December and November"
date: "2025-02-07 23:20:52"
summary: "By Vivien Lou Chen and Steve Goldstein A previous version of this report contained an incorrect number for the revised December job gains. Yields on long-dated U.S. government debt jumped from some of their lowest levels of the year after Friday's nonfarm-payrolls report included revisions for prior months that appeared..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Vivien Lou Chen and Steve Goldstein

A previous version of this report contained an incorrect number for the revised December job gains.

Yields on long-dated U.S. government debt jumped from some of their lowest levels of the year after Friday's nonfarm-payrolls report included revisions for prior months that appeared to show the labor market remains in solid shape.

What's happening

-- The yield on the 2-year Treasury BX:TMUBMUSD02Y was 4.259%, up 5.2 basis points from 4.207% on Thursday. Yields move in the opposite direction to prices.

-- The yield on the 10-year Treasury BX:TMUBMUSD10Y was 4.492%, up 5.5 basis points from 4.437% on Thursday.

-- The yield on the 30-year Treasury BX:TMUBMUSD30Y was 4.694%, up 4.8 basis points from 4.646% on Thursday.

-- Ten- and 30-year yields finished Thursday's session at their second-lowest closing levels of 2025.

What's driving markets

January's nonfarm-payrolls report was being regarded by investors and analysts as a solid one despite showing that the U.S. added 143,000 jobs, which was below the 169,000 gain that had been expected by economists polled by the Wall Street Journal.

The unemployment rate dropped to 4% from 4.1% previously, and the prior two months' worth of data were revised upward. December job gains were raised to 307,000 from 256,000 previously, and November job gains were revised up to 261,000 from 212,000. In addition, average hourly earnings jumped by 0.5%, or more than expected.

"This morning's report may be considered a Goldilocks report - not too hot and not too cold," said Jeffrey Roach, chief economist for LPL Financial in Charlotte, N.C. "In general, labor demand last year was softer than originally reported, but that trend temporarily reversed in November and December. An unemployment rate at 4% is considered very low, giving the Fed reason to keep fed funds unchanged in the near term."

Fed-funds futures traders currently see a 91.5% chance of no action being taken by the Federal Reserve in March, up from 84% a day ago, according to the CME FedWatch Tool. The likelihood of a quarter-point rate cut by next month dropped to 8.5% from 16% on Thursday.

-Vivien Lou Chen -Steve Goldstein

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-07-25 1010ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250207204/treasury-yields-spike-after-solid-revisions-to-jobs-data-for-december-and-november)
