---
title: "Marjorie Taylor Greene leaves the door open to Senate, gubernatorial bids"
date: "2025-02-08 00:25:57"
summary: "Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.) left the door open to running for Senate or Georgia governor during an interview on The Atlanta Journal-Constitution’s “Politically Georgia” podcast on Thursday. “Of course I’m considering all possibilities. No decisions have been made, but I would be telling a lie if I didn’t say..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.) left the door open to running for Senate or Georgia governor [during an interview on The Atlanta Journal-Constitution’s “Politically Georgia” podcast](https://www.ajc.com/politics/politically-georgia/marjorie-taylor-greene-doesnt-rule-out-run-for-governor-or-us-senate/WO7ZCMVUJVH3FIRRLQ4Z6UFL2E/) on Thursday.

“Of course I’m considering all possibilities. No decisions have been made, but I would be telling a lie if I didn’t say I wasn’t considering it,” she told the podcast when asked if she was considering running against Sen. Jon Ossoff (D-Ga.) next year.

The news outlet noted she also left the door open on a gubernatorial run to replace term-limited Gov. Brian Kemp (R). So far, only Georgia Attorney General Chris Carr (R) has announced a run for Kemp’s spot.

Republicans are waiting to see whether Kemp decides to make a run for Senate. Many in the party believe a Kemp bid would almost certainly clear the field. Several Republicans, however, have expressed interest if Kemp doesn’t run, including Rep. Buddy Carter (R-Ga.) and Insurance Commissioner John King.

One variable in the race is whether Trump wades into the GOP primary. Republicans see Ossoff’s seat as one of the best pick-up opportunities in the Senate.

During a rally in Texas in March 2023, [President Trump asked Greene](http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/3918324-trump-suggests-he-would-fight-like-hell-for-greene-if-she-ran-for-senate/) if she wanted to run for Senate.

“I would fight like hell for you,” he said.

Republicans had a chance to flip the seat in 2022 when Sen. Raphael Warnock (R-Ga.) ran for reelection.

Trump endorsed former football star Herschel Walker, who won the GOP primary but lost the general election to Warnock amid a string of controversies.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/5132767-marjorie-taylor-greene-considering-ga-governor/)
