---
title: "Fetterman says he’ll vote against RFK Jr., Gabbard nominations"
date: "2025-02-07 23:01:12"
summary: "Sen. John Fetterman (D-Pa.) said he will vote against two of President Trump’s most controversial Cabinet nominees: Tulsi Gabbard, his pick for director of national intelligence and Robert F. Kennedy Jr., the nominee for Secretary of Health and Human Services. “I have met with most of the cabinet nominees and..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Sen. John Fetterman (D-Pa.) said he will vote against two of President Trump’s most controversial [Cabinet nominees](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5099360-trump-cabinet-nominees/): Tulsi Gabbard, his pick for director of national intelligence and Robert F. Kennedy Jr., the nominee for Secretary of Health and Human Services.

“I have met with most of the cabinet nominees and have carefully watched their confirmation hearings,” Fetterman wrote in a Friday statement on [X](https://x.com/SenFettermanPA/status/1887689036690501934?t=QBPXsAcii99NbRkjSnJWqA&s=19).

“After considering what’s at stake, I have voted against moving forward to the confirmation of Ms. Gabbard and Mr. Kennedy, and will be voting NO on their confirmations.”

Both nominees recently [advanced](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5126571-gabbard-rfk-jr-committee-votes-trump/) with recommendations from their respective committees in party-line votes.

Gabbard has faced [criticism](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5117656-tulsi-gabbard-dni-confirmation-hearing-takeaways/) from the right for past comments in support of pardoning Edward Snowden, who leaked classified U.S. government surveillance information. She’s also been criticized for public remarks that appeared to echo the Kremlin’s arguments for its war in Ukraine, and for a 2017 visit to Syria for an undisclosed meeting with then-President Bashar Assad after the Assad regime used chemical weapons on its own people.

Kennedy sparked opposition for a host of controversial statements and positions, most notably his skepticism of vaccines. Public health advocates have voiced [fears](https://thehill.com/policy/healthcare/5083253-public-health-experts-scientists-warn-senators-on-confirming-rfk-jr/) of a sharp decline in vaccine immunizations if he’s confirmed.

Fetterman represents a state President Trump just won in November’s elections, and he’s signaled a willingness to consider working with Trump on some issues.

The Pennsylvania senator has voted with GOP members to confirm Attorney General Pam Bondi, Secretary of Homeland Security [Kristi Noem](https://thehill.com/people/kristi-noem/) and Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Scott Turner.

He did not support White House Office of Management and Budget Director Russ Vought or Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5132498-sen-john-fetterman-vote-against-trump-cabinet-nominees/)
