---
title: "Charlamagne tha God warns Republicans: Musk is ‘coming for your red states’"
date: "2025-02-07 23:16:01"
summary: "Charlamagne tha God says it’s not just Democrats who need to take a stand against Elon Musk, but Republicans, too, because the tech billionaire is “coming for your red states.” “Forget the Democrats. And let me talk to Republican politicians for a second,” the media personality said during a Thursday..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Charlamagne tha God says it’s not just Democrats who need to take a stand against Elon Musk, but Republicans, too, because the tech billionaire is “coming for your red states.”

“Forget the Democrats. And let me talk to Republican politicians for a second,” the media personality said during a [Thursday segment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a8aX6a5muHo) on Comedy Central’s “The Daily Show.”

“I get you want to cut government spending down to the bone, but remember, Musk isn’t just coming for poor kids that you don’t care about. He’s coming for your red states,” the “Get Honest or Die Lying” author, who was born Lenard McKelvey, said.

“He’s coming for Medicare, Medicaid, farm subsidies. There is no community in America this won’t impact,” Charlamagne tha God said.

“It’s not a Black thing, a white thing, a gay thing, a straight thing,” he added.

President Trump tapped Musk [to head](https://thehill.com/homenews/4988711-what-is-doge-the-new-department-musk-and-ramaswamy-will-lead-under-the-trump-administration/) the newly formed Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE). The Tesla CEO has since vowed to cut $2 trillion from government spending.

But after Musk [moved to](https://thehill.com/policy/technology/5122676-usaid-shutdown-elon-musk-doge/) lock federal workers out of the U.S. Agency for International Development and [gained access](https://thehill.com/business/5130169-elon-musk-access-federal-payments-doge-treasury/) to the Treasury Department’s federal payment system, critics [have questioned](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5126740-elon-musk-government-authority/) the legal basis for his authority.

“White conservatives, I expect more from you,” Charlamagne tha God said.

“You’re just gonna roll over and let an African colonize you?” he asked of Musk, who was born in South Africa.

“Even if you don’t care about we the people, don’t you care about your own power? Congress is supposed to control spending, and Trump is letting Musk do it while you watch,” the 46-year-old “Breakfast Club” co-host exclaimed.

“Don’t forget, they can’t vote him out of office, but they can vote you out of office,” Charlamagne tha God said in his message to Republican lawmakers.

“You think Elon cares about blowing up your political future? This man blows up his own rockets for fun,” he cracked of the SpaceX CEO.

“So Republicans, I know it’s tough to stand up to Trump and Musk right now,” he said, “but our democracy and your jobs depend on it.”

[thehill](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/5132508-charlamagne-tha-god-musk-trump-doge-treasury-usaid/)
