---
title: "Listen With Love: Five Audiobook Valentines"
date: "2025-02-08 01:05:00"
summary: "By Meghan Cox GurdonIts being nearly St. Valentine's Day, love is buying roses and chocolates, love is signing cards for everyone in the class, love is clogging up restaurants with reservations for Friday the 14th. Love is in the very air this time of year — or at least it..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Meghan Cox Gurdon

Its being nearly St. Valentine's Day, love is buying roses and chocolates, love is signing cards for everyone in the class, love is clogging up restaurants with reservations for Friday the 14th. Love is in the very air this time of year — or at least it can be, if it comes to you via audiobook. In these works, literary artistry in the service of love meets polished narration, making for exceptionally good listening.

Passionate love comes late for Janie Mae Crawford in Zora Neale Hurston's "Their Eyes Were Watching God" (HarperAudio), a classic work of the Harlem Renaissance set in central and southern Florida. Janie is married first to a farmer who expects her to drudge like a workhorse, then to an arrogant charmer who controls and silences her ("You gettin' too moufy, Janie"). At last she finds happiness with a younger man, a small-time gambler called Tea Cake. Their relationship is volatile and tender — but it comes to an end after a shocking display of jealousy. Hurston's writing finds brilliant expression in the voice of the late American actress Ruby Dee, whose languid intonations give perfect weight to Hurston's words, teasing out every nuance of meaning and feeling from the dialect of African-American characters in the early 20th century.

Though the married lovers in Kazuo Ishiguro's 2015 novel, "The Buried Giant" (Random House Audio), are elderly, and burning passion is in the past for them, they behave toward each other with enviable devotion. Yet behind their love, behind everything they remember of their life together in fifth- or sixth-century Britain, something dark lies hidden — buried, even. The reading of this intricately plotted work by the English actor David Horovitch is one of the finest you'll find of any novel. His mastery of Mr. Ishiguro's material is complete, and he summons with surpassing clarity the voices of men and women, warriors and knights, villagers and monks. It is a strange and wondrous tale of post-Roman, post-Arthurian peoples living in a realm that is home to ogres, dragons, pixies, Britons, Saxons — and the bones of great and recent slaughter. This beautiful reading ensures that the listener will not miss a single subtlety put in place by one the most careful prose stylists writing today.

A married woman in midlife returns in memory to her long-ago summer fling with a young actor in Ann Patchett's "Tom Lake" (HarperAudio). On a Michigan cherry farm during the early months of pandemic lockdown, hired help is scarce, and Lara and Joe's three adult daughters have come home. While Lara works in the fields with the girls, harvesting cherries, she agrees to tell them about her time on the stage and her affair with a fellow who became world-famous.

As Lara moves back and forth in time, she describes the intensity of young love and the thrilling closeness that grew up between the players in the Tom Lake theater troupe. She also meditates on the quieter married love she has shared with Joe, as well as on her deep love for her daughters and the love of the land that ties the family to the farm. Ms. Patchett has a gift for capturing the ways of the heart, its throbs and yearnings and odd little diversions. There's a quality of informality in her work that comes effortlessly to the ear in the reading by the actress Meryl Streep, whose relaxed American cadences heighten the sense that you're hearing a real woman relate thoughts about life rather than, as is actually the case, hearing a novelist describe a character who is relating thoughts about life.

Emma Woodhouse, "handsome, clever, and rich," if perhaps a little obtuse, finds true love while meddling in other people's private lives in "Emma" (Naxos), Jane Austen's 1815 comedy of manners. Others have read and recorded this beloved classic, but none surpasses the English actress Juliet Stevenson in sensibility, tact and velvet-voiced command of the text. With tiny adjustments of timbre and breath, Ms. Stevenson conjures the personalities and accents of the people in Emma's genteel environs: her kindly, silly father, Mr. Woodhouse; her sweet but ordinary protégée, Harriet Smith; the amiable but snobbish vicar, Mr. Elton; and of course the man who promises to bring Emma lasting happiness, the dashing and principled Mr. Knightley.

The Danish-born Norwegian writer Sigrid Undset won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1928 largely on the strength of her masterwork, the medieval saga "Kristin Lavransdatter" (Penguin Audio), which was published in three volumes in 1920-22. Focused on the life of a 14th-century woman in Catholic Norway, the eponymous Kristin, the book is breathtaking in its sweep and at times shockingly direct in its depictions of the ways that love can alter the direction of a person's life.

We meet Kristin as a girl, the daughter of a respected squire, as she fights off the overtures of a lustful villager. Sent for her reputational safety to live in a cloister, Kristin allows herself to be seduced by Erlend Nikulausson, a man who will bring her great love, long marriage, eight sons — and endless, writhing emotional agonies. Erlend is handsome and lithe, a charmer and a knave, wealthy but a spendthrift. Already excommunicated for his scandalous behavior with an earlier mistress, he loses his estate after joining a political plot. Before long, Kristin must provide for the family alone, and eventually husband and wife are alienated.

This astonishing work, in a fresh translation by Tiina Nunnally, comes to the audio listener in a crisp, firm reading by the actress Nina Yndis. Ms. Yndis handles Norwegian place names and family names with aplomb, easing the listener's entry into Kristin's unfamiliar world and Undset's enthralling story. The audiobook is not for anyone who fears commitment, coming in as it does at a whopping 47 hours, 11 minutes. Not a moment is wasted, though, as we follow Kristin through her loves — for her parents, for Erlend, for her boys — and the trials she undergoes in keeping faithful to a higher and greater love even than these.

* Mrs. Gurdon, a Journal contributor, is the author of "The Enchanted Hour: The Miraculous Power of Reading Aloud in the Age of Distraction."

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207008375:0/)
