---
title: "Week's Best: Vanguard Slashes Fees — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-08 00:39:00"
summary: "By Kenneth CorbinFund giant Vanguard is making the biggest cuts to expense ratios in its history. On average, the asset manager is slashing fees by 20% across 168 share classes of 87 funds. Collectively, the fee reductions should save Vanguard investors more than $350 million this year alone. A company..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kenneth Corbin

Fund giant Vanguard is making the biggest cuts to expense ratios in its history. On average, the asset manager is slashing fees by 20% across 168 share classes of 87 funds. Collectively, the fee reductions should save Vanguard investors more than $350 million this year alone. A company executive explains that the move is in keeping with Vanguard's ethos of keeping fees low for investors and comes in response to rising market valuations and a recent influx of investor money.

Among other most-read wealth management articles this week:

Fidelity linked to "devastating losses." Four investors are accusing Fidelity Investments of missing red flags that a former investment advisor was engaged in risky trading strategies that cost them hundreds of thousands of dollars. Thomas Chadwick, a now-barred advisor based in New Hampshire who used Fidelity as a custodian for his registered investment advisory firm, catered to older investors with moderate risk tolerances, but allegedly concentrated his clients' positions in risky unsecured debt securities. The investors are seeking damages in an arbitration forum. Fidelity declined to comment.

Allen Stanford's ponzi case ends . A federal judge has ordered an end to the Securities and Exchange Commission's lawsuit against Allen Stanford, the orchestrator of a massive $7 billion Ponzi scam. Stanford, 74, who is serving a 110-year-prison sentence, was ordered to pay a $5.9 billion civil fine. The court also assessed penalties against former Stanford associates James Davis and Gilberto Lopez, who were ordered to pay $17.7 million and $3.4 million, respectively.

Advisors react to Trump 2.0 . The first weeks of the second Trump administration have been nothing if not eventful. With a nonstop drumbeat of headlines about new moves on trade, immigration, federal payrolls, and much more, advisors are hearing from clients about the impact on their portfolios and financial plans. We asked top advisors about how those conversations are going in this week's Big Q feature. Advisors are telling clients to separate their emotions about the election from the outlook for markets, stick to their bedrock financial plan, and try to keep a broad perspective amid the frenetic news cycle.

Raymond James mum on advisor count . Raymond James reported a blowout quarter in the first period of the 2025 fiscal year but omitted what has traditionally been considered an important metric: advisor head count. The move follows similar actions from other large brokerages and banks that have said that the number of advisors on staff isn't the best measure of the health of their wealth management businesses. Raymond James says more meaningful data points in its earnings report are total assets and asset inflows, both of which were up from last year. Raymond James says it will still report advisor count on an annual basis.

Musk or no, IRS Direct File on track . It appears that the IRS' free Direct File program will still be available for tax filers this season, despite a swirl of doubt amid the Trump administration's campaign to shrink the federal government. When a user on X posted that the team that developed Direct File should be eliminated, Musk responded that the group had been "deleted." He appeared to be referring to a unit of technologists at the General Services Administration, rather than Direct File itself, which IRS insiders say is still up and running and accepting tax returns.

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207008115:0/)
