---
title: "Super Micro Stock Is Jumping Again. Why SMCI Is on Its Best Run in Months. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-07 23:25:00"
summary: "By George GloverSuper Micro Computer stock was rising again on Friday as the AI server maker's momentum gathered pace. Investors finally have reason to feel hopeful.Shares, which trade under the ticker SMCI, climbed 5.5% to $35.70 in early trading. The benchmark S&amp;P 500 index slipped 0.2%.If the stock closer higher..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By George Glover

Super Micro Computer stock was rising again on Friday as the AI server maker's momentum gathered pace. Investors finally have reason to feel hopeful.

Shares, which trade under the ticker SMCI, climbed 5.5% to $35.70 in early trading. The benchmark S&P 500 index slipped 0.2%.

If the stock closer higher it will be a fourth consecutive day of gains — its longest winning streak since October. The shares have climbed 33% over four days.

Two pieces of good news have powered the gains.

On Tuesday, shares rose after Super Micro said it would provide a fiscal second-quarter business update on Feb. 11, giving investors hope they will finally get some much-needed clarity on the company's accounting issues.

The Nasdaq has given the server maker until later this month to file its annual accounts for the last fiscal year, which ended June 30 — otherwise, it faces the threat of being delisted from the exchange.

On Wednesday, the stock rose again after SMCI said it was fully ramping up production of its artificial-intelligence data center with Nvidia's Blackwell platform, the chip maker's recently released new graphics processing unit.

Write to George Glover at george.glover@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250206005455:0/)
