---
title: "Global Commodities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-08 01:15:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1204 ET - Live cattle futures on the CME are up 0.1%, inching higher after falling 2.2% yesterday. \"Fund liquidation resumed on Thursday,\" says AgResource in a note, adding that boxed beef prices were mixed yesterday,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1204 ET - Live cattle futures on the CME are up 0.1%, inching higher after falling 2.2% yesterday. "Fund liquidation resumed on Thursday," says AgResource in a note, adding that boxed beef prices were mixed yesterday, which also put some pressure on cattle futures. Trading is tentative as managed money traders hold a large net long position in cattle - which traders fear makes the contract susceptible to a large downturn if negative news hits the market, says AgResource. The CFTC will release updated Commitment of Traders data this afternoon. Lean hogs are also a nudge higher, with the most-active contract up 0.2%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1127 ET - Eventual U.S. tariffs on imports of Canadian and Mexican oil--of 10% and 25%, respectively--would alter North American crude flows significantly, sending some oil elsewhere and raising regional prices, Dylan White of Wood MacKenzie says in a note. The steeper tariffs on Mexico would likely move heavy Maya crude away from the U.S. to Europe and Asia. And while Canadian crude would continue to be consumed by U.S. midcontinent and Gulf Coast refiners, the Trans Mountain Pipeline would facilitate increased shipments of Canadian crude to Asia, he says. "Beyond that, we expect the higher tariff costs will get backed into wider crude differentials in Mexico and Canada."(anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1122 ET - Some customers who can switch from shell eggs to liquid eggs are trying to do that now, Chief Operating Officer Jeff Zadoks says in an earnings call. There's not enough supply available to meet the customer demand for liquid eggs, he added, given that liquid egg prices aren't as inflated. "As our supply comes back, that's something that we can take advantage of in the short term and hopefully in the medium to long-term to continue to add to our volumes," Zadoks says. Bird flu has ravaged U.S. poultry farms, and led to high egg prices. (roshan.fernandez@wsj.com)

1114 ET - Gold extends gains further above $2,900 an ounce after consumer confidence slips on worries about near-term inflation. Gold had risen earlier on the January jobs data. President Trump's moves early in his second term, including an immigration crackdown and tariff threats are raising inflation worries and making safe havens like gold more appealing for investors looking ahead, says Commerzbank in a note. "The [World Gold Council] expects investment demand to be higher in 2025 than last year," says the firm. "Lower interest rates, highly valued stock markets, a weaker U.S. dollar and geopolitical risks are cited as drivers." Gold is up 0.9%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1002 ET - Retail prices for orange juice rose to a new all-time high through January, according to data from Nielsen. The firm says that for the 4 weeks through Jan. 25, the average cost for a gallon of orange juice rose to $10.59 a gallon. That's up nearly 6% from the previous 4-week period, and up 12% from the same timeframe last year. The uptick in orange juice prices comes as food prices are starting to creep back up, according to data from the Labor Department. Underpinning high retail prices is also a generationally-small orange crop out of Florida--expected to produce only 12 million boxes this year, the lowest in nearly a century. FCOJ futures on the ICE are down 0.9% to $4.34/lb.(kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0950 ET - CBOT grains are opening trading lower, as analysts say that the forward momentum of grains this week — closing higher for 3 out of the past 4 sessions — appears to be sapped. "The bulls may need another push to keep momentum moving forward, but may have trouble finding one this month," says Matt Zeller of StoneX in a note. Tuesday's WASDE report is expected to contain little in the way of new information on U.S. crops, although updates to the USDA's outlook for Brazil and Argentina are expected. Some analysts are mulling the possibility of the USDA adjusting export forecasts for U.S. grains, although recent trade uncertainty may stifle that. Most-active corn is down 1% early, soybeans fall 0.8%, and wheat slides 1.1%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0930 ET - Base metal prices rise, with LME three-month copper up 2.1% at $9,482 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum up 0.55% at $2,639 a ton. Copper now stands at a three-month high as market participants digest the first exchange of tariffs between the U.S. and China, with hopes that a trade conflict will be less serious than previously feared, Commerzbank analysts say in a note. Chinese participants have also returned to the market with vigor after the Lunar New Year celebrations and demand is brisk, which has also boosted copper price, Commerzbank says. The metal's gains also appear to reflect particularly high demand in the U.S. due to fears of tariffs, as a significant premium is still being paid on the U.S. commodities exchange Comex compared to the LME, Commerzbank adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0927 ET - OPEC's ample spare crude capacity provides some comfort to the market against the impact of potential supply disruptions to Iranian oil shipments, according to Capital Economics' David Oxley. The U.S. imposed sanctions on an international network facilitating the shipment of Iranian crude to China on Thursday, just days after U.S. President Trump reinstated his "maximum pressure" campaign on Tehran. Oil benchmarks rose following the news, but are still poised for weekly losses of more than 1%. "The key point is that increased enforcement on Iran's oil shipments would be a bigger deal were it not for the fact that OPEC was sitting on about 6 million barrels a day of spare capacity, some of which they will begin to bring back to the market from April," the commodities economist says. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0916 ET - Oil prices are on track for a third consecutive week of losses amid uncertainty over the impact of Trump administration policies including threatened tariffs on U.S. suppliers Canada and Mexico, and sanctions on producers such as Iran and Russia. If WTI settles below $70 a barrel, "we could be set for lower prices but there are reasons for optimism," Alex Hodes of StoneX says in a note. "Markets are still digesting the actual supply disruptions that could occur due to Iranian and Russian sanctions." WTI is up 0.6% at $71.02 a barrel, and Brent is 0.5% higher at $74.66 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0900 ET - U.S. natural gas futures hold their ground ahead of the weekend with colder temperatures expected across large parts of the U.S. in coming days. "Overnight data maintained strong national demand next week as frosty air over the Northern Plains spreads south and eastward to cover much of the interior U.S., including lows of teens and 20s into northern Texas," forecaster NatGasWeather.com says in a note. Nymex natural gas is off 0.4% at $3.392/mmBtu, on track for a double-digit weekly gain thanks to the colder February outlook. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0808 ET - At a time when the U.S. is becoming a less amicable trading partner, Canada's Keyera and AltaGas sign a deal that opens doors to new energy end-markets for Canadian oil. Keyera, a midstream operator, and AltaGas, an energy infrastructure firm, sign a 15-year tolling contract that increases energy export capacity by 12,500 barrels of liquified petroleum gas a day. With the looming threat of US tariffs, which would include a 10% tax on Canadian energy, this deal allows for Keyera to search out new markets for its energy, offering "its customers more diversified market access for LPGs, including premium Asian markets." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0722 ET - Gold futures rise, sitting just below its all-time record. Futures are up 0.55% at $2,892.50 a troy ounce, just shy of the all-time high of $2,906, set on Wednesday. Rather than the usual price drivers--the strength of the U.S. dollar and interest rate expectations--it is safe-haven demand in politically turbulent times that drives the rally, Commerzbank analysts say. This particularly reflects uncertainties surrounding the policies of President Trump, they say in a note. A sharp rise in lease rates also indicates tension in the physical market. That said, there are already signs of an exaggeration, and a price correction in the coming weeks is likely, Commerzbank writes. Spot gold prices should trade at $2,700 an ounce by the middle of the year and $2,650 an ounce by the end of 2025, Commerzbank adds.(joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207008441:0/)
