---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-08 01:00:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1200 ET - Pinterest shares are surging on guidance for 13% to 15% revenue growth in 1Q that investors are likely seeing as a baseline for the rest of the year, Wedbush analysts say in a..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1200 ET - Pinterest shares are surging on guidance for 13% to 15% revenue growth in 1Q that investors are likely seeing as a baseline for the rest of the year, Wedbush analysts say in a research note. Growth is expected to accelerate sequentially this year thanks to easing year-over-year comparisons, the analysts say. Revenue should also benefit from a lapping of weak ad spending from consumer packaged goods brands last year, which has already started to show some improvement so far in 1Q, the analysts say. Pinterest also guided for 1Q Ebitda of $155 million to $170 million, ahead of current Wall Street estimates, they say. Shares rise 17% to $39.44. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1122 ET - Some customers who can switch from shell eggs to liquid eggs are trying to do that now, Chief Operating Officer Jeff Zadoks says in an earnings call. There's not enough supply available to meet the customer demand for liquid eggs, he added, given that liquid egg prices aren't as inflated. "As our supply comes back, that's something that we can take advantage of in the short term and hopefully in the medium to long-term to continue to add to our volumes," Zadoks says. Bird flu has ravaged U.S. poultry farms, and led to high egg prices. (roshan.fernandez@wsj.com)

1111 ET - Post Holdings says that it continues to see merger and acquisition opportunities, both large and small. Chief Operating Officer Jeff Zadoks said the company has better leverage than in the past. "We really enjoy synergy deals, as we've had in the past. So we don't really consider those less sexy. We consider those right in our wheelhouse," Zadoks says. "We think the opportunities are going to be out there, and we think we're well positioned to take advantage when the right one comes along." (roshan.fernandez@wsj.com)

1031 ET - Las Vegas has a tight spread on the Super Bowl matchup between the Kansas City Chiefs and Philadelphia Eagles, indicating it's essentially a coin flip as to who will win. A Chiefs victory and the total points in the game coming in under 48.5 would be the best outcome for the sportsbooks, say BofA Securities analysts in a research note, citing the popularity of bets on the Eagles winning. They note that BetMGM, which is jointly owned by MGM Resorts International and Entain, has said an Eagles win could be helpful to sportsbooks overall given their liability of futures bets placed on the Chiefs. BofA says the American Gaming Association expects Americans to bet $1.4B legally on the Super Bowl this year, which is in-line with last year's handle. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

0927 ET - OPEC's ample spare crude capacity provides some comfort to the market against the impact of potential supply disruptions to Iranian oil shipments, according to Capital Economics' David Oxley. The U.S. imposed sanctions on an international network facilitating the shipment of Iranian crude to China on Thursday, just days after U.S. President Trump reinstated his "maximum pressure" campaign on Tehran. Oil benchmarks rose following the news, but are still poised for weekly losses of more than 1%. "The key point is that increased enforcement on Iran's oil shipments would be a bigger deal were it not for the fact that OPEC was sitting on about 6 million barrels a day of spare capacity, some of which they will begin to bring back to the market from April," the commodities economist says. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0921 ET - The U.K. real estate sector is showing signs of recovery, especially since the Bank of England first cut interest rates last summer, Zurich Insurance Group says in its analysis of the 2025 outlook for real-estate investment. "The momentum in the U.K. market is encouraging, with listed real estate companies staging a meaningful recovery," Global Head of Real Estate & Strategy Andrew Angeli writes. The government's focus on fiscal expansion and real wage growth is expected to support the consumer sector and housing market, the analysis says. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0921 ET - Amazon is planning to allocate more than $100 billion in capital expenditure this year as part of a push to build generative AI services. UBS analysts in a research note say the capex plans are a sign of higher demand, particularly as demand for on-premise to cloud infrastructure continues as IT budgets return to form. They estimate that about 70% will be allocated to Amazon Web Services. "Even as Amazon and the broader industry continues to face a shortage in chips/components, we believe the main takeaway here is that demand for AWS continues to outpace supply," they say. Shares tick down 2.7% premarket after 1Q sales and operating income projections came up short of Wall Street's expectations. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

0808 ET - At a time when the U.S. is becoming a less amicable trading partner, Canada's Keyera and AltaGas sign a deal that opens doors to new energy end-markets for Canadian oil. Keyera, a midstream operator, and AltaGas, an energy infrastructure firm, sign a 15-year tolling contract that increases energy export capacity by 12,500 barrels of liquified petroleum gas a day. With the looming threat of US tariffs, which would include a 10% tax on Canadian energy, this deal allows for Keyera to search out new markets for its energy, offering "its customers more diversified market access for LPGs, including premium Asian markets." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0808 ET - Switzerland's real estate sector is showing resilience and stability in an uncertain market, Zurich Insurance Group says in its analysis of the 2025 outlook for real estate investments. Switzerland is a solid option for real estate investments given its diverse economy and stable political environment, it says. "The country's reliance on renewable energy and consistent low inflation rates make it an attractive market for investors," Andrew Angeli writes. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0805 ET - Porsche's guidance implies 2025 EBIT will be 26% below consensus estimates, with the warning mostly related to slow electric-vehicle demand and restructuring costs, Morgan Stanley writes. The company's revenue guidance of 39 billion to 40 billion euros is 1% below consensus. Return on sales guidance of 10%-12% compares to consensus at 14.7%, while the forecast automotive net cash flow margin of 7%-9% compares with consensus at 10%. The company plans extensive measures to improve profitability, including an expanded product pipeline, expansion of personalized products and corporate organization adjustment. The market is expecting a new combustion-engine Macan model in Europe in 2026, and if Porsche decides to launch it, this could support capacity utilization and margins, the bank adds. Shares trade 5.4% lower at 56.62 euros. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0746 ET - Vinci's guidance for 2025 might lead to a low-single-digit consensus upgrade, JPMorgan analysts say in a research note. The French construction and infrastructure company reported a strong set of full-year results and expects a further increase in revenue and earnings, excluding the impact of higher corporate tax rates in France. A positive share-price reaction to this, as well as the improving French political backdrop from the now likely approval of the French budget, was expected by the analysts, JPM says. Shares trade 2.6% higher at 110 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0739 ET - The loss of M&S's clothing, home and beauty boss Richard Price is a massive blow to the retailer, having done such a good job in recent years, AJ Bell Investment Director Russ Mould writes. He adds that the appointment of former Boohoo CEO John Lyttle might seem an odd choice given his background with value retailers, which goes against M&S's model. "Lyttle will have big shoes to fill and for once, investors might hope that he doesn't try and bring a flavor of former employers to his new role," Mould writes. M&S shares are down 2.35% at 345.0 pence while the FTSE 100 index is 0.3% lower. (ian.walker@wsj.com.)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207008266:0/)
