---
title: "Texas Advisor Brooklynn Willy Faces 11 More Charges for Alleged Fraud — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-08 02:04:00"
summary: "By Kenneth CorbinA Texas investment advisor who had been jailed for not cooperating with a federal investigation is facing a raft of new charges for her role in alleged investor fraud.Brooklynn Willy, who offered financial advice on San Antonio radio stations, ran the businesses Queen B Advisors and Texas Financial..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kenneth Corbin

A Texas investment advisor who had been jailed for not cooperating with a federal investigation is facing a raft of new charges for her role in alleged investor fraud.

Brooklynn Willy, who offered financial advice on San Antonio radio stations, ran the businesses Queen B Advisors and Texas Financial Advisory.

In May 2021, Willy recommended that a married couple who were advisory clients invest $500,000 in an outside company, according to prosecutors. She then allegedly used the money for a variety of other purposes, including credit card payments and transfers to other investors and companies she controlled.

Willy had been arrested and jailed after she allegedly misled federal agents investigating the clients' claims by producing a false loan document and lying to the investigators. She was ordered to be released from jail Jan. 28 on a $40,000 bond. Her lawyer didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.

She was initially charged with making a false statement and obstructing and attempting to obstruct an official proceeding. She also faced an aggravated identity theft charge for allegedly using false and copied client signatures on a bogus promissory note and line of credit.

At the time, prosecutors said the FBI and IRS were still looking into whether Willy's conduct merited additional charges. They have since determined that it did.

In January, a grand jury handed down 11 additional charges against the former advisor, including six counts of wire fraud, two counts of engaging in monetary transactions in property derived from specified unlawful activity, one count of securities fraud, and additional counts of aggravated identity theft and making a false statement.

The superseding indictment with the additional charges also describes four additional victims who invested money with Willy based on alleged deceptions. Those included one advisory client who invested $75,000 in what prosecutors say was falsely described as a commercial real estate project and another who put $600,000 toward what were described as business projects. In both cases, the money wasn't invested as the clients had intended but was used for Willy's benefit, according to the indictment.

The other two alleged victims were another married couple who were advisory clients of Willy's and invested a total of just over $2 million in what was described as the purchase of "bad debt" through a company called Cold Moon Holdings and financing business investments.

However, the "investment was not used to purchase bad debt nor for business loans," according to the indictment. "Instead, [the victims'] investment was used for the benefit of Willy, used to pay associates of Willy, used to pay other purported investors, and used to make the 'interest' payments due to [the] victims."

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207008901:0/)
