---
title: "Elf Beauty Stock Falls. Its Outlook Was Ugly — and Analysts Are Worried. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-08 01:07:00"
summary: "By Sabrina EscobarE.l.f. Beauty stock was on track for its biggest decrease since 2018 on Friday after the makeup manufacturer warned demand was slowing, sparking a series of analyst downgrades to the stock.Shares of E.l.f. were down 20% to $70.60 Friday morning. The S&amp;P 500 was down 0.7%.E.l.f on Thursday..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Sabrina Escobar

E.l.f. Beauty stock was on track for its biggest decrease since 2018 on Friday after the makeup manufacturer warned demand was slowing, sparking a series of analyst downgrades to the stock.

Shares of E.l.f. were down 20% to $70.60 Friday morning. The S&P 500 was down 0.7%.

E.l.f on Thursday lowered its guidance for the fiscal year ending in March, citing "softer than expected trends in January."

The company now sees net sales ranging from $1.3 billion to $1.31 billion, lower than previous projections for $1.32 to $1.34 billion but largely in line with estimates. Earnings per share is forecast to be between $3.27 to $3.32. The company's past guidance was for $3.47 to $3.53 and analysts had been expecting $3.36.

The outlook suggests that fourth-quarter sales growth will be in the single-digit range for the first time in four years, writes Peter Grom, an analyst at UBS. Grom downgraded the stock to Neutral from Buy on Friday and slashed his price target to $74 from $158, saying that the deceleration in sales growth will continue and eventually drag on the stock's valuation.

"As we have seen with other growth names over time (SAM, CELH, etc.), the multiple can compress substantially if the [long-term] growth trajectory is viewed as no longer achievable," Grom writes.

Grom is worried that lower sales mean the bottom-line growth will stall as well, given that the company's third-quarter earnings miss suggests it is running out of levers to pull on to boost profitability. Adjusted earnings per share were 74 cents, below analyst consensus for 76 cents a share.

The additional 10% tariffs that the Trump administration has slapped on Chinese imports could also be a challenge for the company. A little less than 80% of e.l.f.'s production is based in China, CEO Tarang Amin told Barron's in November. On an earnings call Thursday, executives said tariff hikes won't impact e.l.f's current fiscal year results.

Third-quarter sales were a bit of a bright spot for e.l.f., surging 31% year over year to $355.3 million and coming in ahead of calls for $330.4 million. Unfortunately for e.l.f., the market is forward-looking and investors are more rattled by the company's lackluster sales projection than they were elated by a strong quarter.

"ELF is still a best-in-class company, but we're lowering our rating to Neutral from Buy due to uncertainty over how long the [point of sale] slowdown will last," writes Linda Bolton Weiser, an analyst at D.A. Davidson who downgraded the stock Friday. She also cut her price target for the shares to $80 from $170.

Bolton Weiser and Grom aren't the only analysts to sour on the stock lately. The percentage of analysts that rate shares Neutral rose to 35% Friday from 20% at the end of January, according to FactSet. And even analysts that haven't downgraded the stock have trimmed their price targets for the shares. The mean price target on Friday was $100.81, down from $157.69 in late January.

Oliver Chen, an analyst at TD Cowen, kept a Buy rating on the shares but moved his price target to $77 from $130, acknowledging that near-term demand trends could be choppy. Chen notes, however, that the softness wasn't entirely unique to e.l.f. — third-party data suggests the overall mass cosmetics category got a slow start to the year. Consumers pulled back on cosmetics after stocking up in December, he posits, and influencer-heavy marketing efforts may have been put on pause amid discussions over the fate of TikTok and in deference to the wildfires in Los Angeles where many influencers are based.

That realization seemed to be weighing on other mass-market beauty stocks Friday. Ulta was one of the leading decliners in the S&P 500, down 4%. Coty was 1.5% lower, L'Oréal was down 0.7%, and Interparfums was down 2.6%.

"Our take is the slowdown in mass cosmetics is temporary and could reverse in spring as social media and innovation ramp," Chen writes.

Write to Sabrina Escobar at sabrina.escobar@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207008394:0/)
