---
title: "Nymex Overview: Oil Heads for Third-Straight Weekly Loss Despite Friday's Gains — OPIS"
date: "2025-02-08 01:30:00"
summary: "Crude oil and refined product futures were rising in morning trading Friday, though crude prices remain on track for a third-straight week of losses.Gains for crude Friday were in the 20cts/bbl range at about 11:30 a.m. ET, with prices for March West Texas Intermediate crude up 20cts to $70.81/bbl while..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Crude oil and refined product futures were rising in morning trading Friday, though crude prices remain on track for a third-straight week of losses.

Gains for crude Friday were in the 20cts/bbl range at about 11:30 a.m. ET, with prices for March West Texas Intermediate crude up 20cts to $70.81/bbl while April prices moved 19cts higher to $70.56/bbl. April Brent crude was 15cts in the black to $74.44/bbl while May Brent gained 19cts to $74.03/bbl.

The front-month WTI contract is about 2.4% below last Friday's settlement and off more than 10% from its recent high seen on Jan. 15. The front-month Brent contract is about 1.7% lower on the week.

Refined product prices are headed to end the week with gains amid solid gains Friday morning.

March RBOB futures are up 2cts to $2.0947/gal while April prices, which reflect a more-expensive summer-RVP standard, are 1.54cts higher to $2.3109/gal. March ULSD prices are climbing by 2.24cts to $2.4204/gal while April prices are climbing by 1.55cts to $2.3574/gal.

Gasoline futures are up about 1.8% from last week while diesel futures have risen about 0.8%.

The strength in futures has boosted pump prices for drivers across the U.S., with the national average cost of regular unleaded at $3.1406/gal Friday morning, OPIS data show. That's more than 3cts higher than last week and the highest the average has been since late October. The national average diesel price of $3.6671/gal was down by fractions of a cent from Thursday but was 0.4ct/gal higher than last Friday's average.

The stronger futures prices are squeezing retailers, with the national average rack-to-retail margin for gasoline at 33.2cts/gal Friday, down 2.8cts from Thursday and 0.8ct/gal lower than a week earlier. At 44.9cts/gal, the national average diesel margin is 2.7cts/gal lower than Thursday and 1.7cts/gal lower than a week ago.

The strength in energy futures comes as markets remain focused on trade policy under the new Trump administration, with the president placing new tariffs on Chinese imports while pausing his threat to impose tariffs on Mexico and Canada. Petroleum markets are keeping an eye on the president's threats to target Iranian oil exports, adding tailwinds to rising prices this week.

This content was created by Oil Price Information Service, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. OPIS is run independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

* Reporting by Steve Cronin, scronin@opisnet.com; Editing by Michael Kelly, mkelly@opisnet.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207008674:0/)
