---
title: "Financial Services Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-08 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Financial Services. Exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1050 ET - The Fannie Mae Home Purchase Sentiment Index rose slightly, by 0.3 points, to 73.4 in January, recovering from its first decline since July. This uptick was driven by..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Financial Services. Exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1050 ET - The Fannie Mae Home Purchase Sentiment Index rose slightly, by 0.3 points, to 73.4 in January, recovering from its first decline since July. This uptick was driven by increased consumer optimism about homebuying and selling conditions, as well as heightened expectations for rising home prices over the next year. About 43% of respondents now expect home prices to increase, up from 38%, while the net share of people believing home prices will go up jumped 9 percentage points to 20%. However, optimism about declining mortgage rates waned, with the net share expecting lower rates dropping 13 percentage points to 3%. Additionally, 65% of consumers anticipate higher rental prices, up 8 percentage points from last month. Year-over-year, the index is up 2.7 points. Perceptions of good or bad times to buy or sell homes remained unchanged month-over-month. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

0553 ET - Legal & General Group's U.S. insurance businesses sale makes strategic sense and the subsequent capital returns boost management's credibility after disappointing returns from the Cala sale, BofA Securities analysts write. L&G plans to return 1.0 billion pounds of the funds to shareholders via buybacks upon completion of the deal. The analysts say they already expected a 500 million pound buyback in this year and now see scope for about 1.2 billion next year. Shares are up 5.5% at 252.0 pence and are leading the FTSE 100-index gainers.(ian.walker@wsj.com.)

0456 ET - Banco de Sabadell's fourth-quarter pretax profit was ahead of consensus, driven by higher-than-expected core revenues and lower-than-expected costs, RBC Capital Markets analyst Pablo de la Torre Cuevas says in a research note. The Spanish bank's result reflected an unexpected 50 million-euro reduction in taxes, helping quarterly net profit of 532 million euros exceed expectations of 453 million, the analyst says. RBC expects Sabadell to deliver resilient earnings in the coming years and to benefit from the anticipated recovery in Spanish lending. Sabadell shares trade down 0.7% at 2.39 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0449 ET - Although Ashmore Group's 1H outflows continued, there has been a persistent improvement as 2Q net outflows were just $400 million, Peel Hunt analysts Stuart Duncan and Robert Sage say. This in turn saw total assets under management falling just 1% to close at $48.8 billion, and Ebitda above consensus expectations at 34 million pounds, the analysts say in a note. Net management fees fell 17% to 68 million pounds, a reflection of lower AuMs and revenue margins moderating above expectations, which were offset by well-controlled costs, the analysts say. "Having faced significant challenges for some time, there remains a more positive tone to the outlook," the analysts say. Shares are down 0.5% at 170.70 pence and up 6.75% in the year-to-date. (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0440 ET - Legal & General Group's U.S. insurance-businesses sale is a surprise as neither of the units were included in the company's corporate-investments unit set out in its capital markets event in June, RBC Europe analyst Mandeep Jagpal and associate Dawid Pych write. The unit was set up to oversee assets and businesses that the company decided didn't fit with its strategy. "The deal highlights to us that there remains significant upside to life-insurer valuations, which is being recognized by long-term investors," they say. Shares are up 6.8% at 255.10 pence and are leading FTSE 100 index gainers. (ian.walker@wsj.com.)

0258 ET - Danske Bank delivered a robust 4Q with better-than-expected profit and dividends, Jefferies analysts Alexander Demetriou and Joseph Dickerson say in a note. The Copenhagen-based bank's pre-provision profit was 14% ahead of market expectations, driven by revenues from a beat in net interest incomes and fees. Dividends also came in ahead of expectations, with an extra dividend lifting the total payouts to 28.70 kroner a share, the analysts add. This compares to the market consensus of 22.5 kroner. However, the analysts flag that the 5 billion kroner share buyback was lower than expected. They add that the market currently expects Danske Bank's 2025 net profit at 21.3 billion kroner, at the lower end of the guidance range of 21-23 billion kroner. (michael.susin@wsj.com)

2321 ET - Bank Mandiri (Persero) may be vulnerable to its rapid lending growth posted in 2024, Bahana Sekuritas analysts say in a research report. The Indonesian bank's deposit growth might not be able to keep pace with its swift credit growth, which could compel the bank to increase lending rates to improve liquidity, the analysts say. The brokerage expects uncertain macroeconomic conditions to continue putting pressure on the bank's net interest margin and cost of funds. The brokerage lowers the stock's target price to IDR6,700.00 from IDR7,940.00, citing a lower premium for the stock due to a weaker profitability outlook, while maintaining a buy rating. Shares are 0.5% lower at IDR5,075.00. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2254 ET - Singapore Exchange likely faces softer trading volumes in 2H FY 2025 as macro tailwinds in the prior half, including U.S. elections and China stimulus, taper off, CGS International analyst Andrea Choong says in a note. Choong reckons investors have "raced ahead" to price in potential pickup in trading volumes despite scant details on potential initiatives to revitalize the Singapore stock market. "At this stage, we think that expectations of impactful measures are running high, and unconvincing initiatives may result in some unwinding of SGX's recent re-rating." Choong maintains a hold rating on the stock, and raises the target to S$13.20 from S$12.50 after taking into account elevated clearing fees, cost control and higher treasury income. Shares rise 6.45% to S$13.53. (hoishan.chan@wsj.com)

2040 ET - Investors should watch AMP's annual results announcement for any comments on the potential for further capital management outside of dividends, Goldman Sachs analysts say. They use a note to clients to flag opportunities including from monetization of non-core equity stakes and lower platform capital requirements. The GS analysts, who see flow risks around AMP's sale of its advice business and are cautious on AMP's ability to win flows, are keen for an update on December-quarter flows and margin outlook. Goldman Sachs has a neutral rating and A$1.54 target price on the stock, which is down 1.0% at A$1.7425. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

2011 ET - Singapore Exchange should continue to benefit from market volatility, which is expected to remain elevated, Morningstar analyst Roy Van Keulen writes in a note. SGX's outsized exposure to derivatives has helped support earnings, as over 50% of its revenue comes from derivatives-related products, as compared with around 25% for other exchanges, he says. Rising global debt levels, geopolitical tensions and U.S. trade and tariff policy will continue to drive uncertainty, leading to market volatility, and should continue to benefit SGX, he says. The share price has risen about a third over the past year, he adds, and Morningstar raises its fair value estimate to S$13.60 from S$13.06. Shares are up 2.2% at S$12.96. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

1237 ET - Allstate expects California's state-backed FAIR insurance program to tack on charges due to the wildfires that decimated large swaths of the Los Angeles area. California's FAIR Plan is available to state residents and businesses who cannot obtain insurance through a regular insurance company. While overseen by the state, the program is supported by a pool of private insurers. "We think it's pretty likely that they're going to exceed their surplus levels and there will likely be an assessment," says Mario Rizzo, Allstate's president of property-liability. Allstate, which says a net loss of $1.1 billion will be reflected in 1Q 2025 earnings from the wildfires, says it has reduced its homeowners market share by more than 50% in California since 2008. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207008515:0/)
