---
title: "'The Licensing Racket' Review: There's a Board for That"
date: "2025-02-07 23:55:00"
summary: "By Alex TabarrokThe Venus of Willendorf, a prehistoric statuette with finely braided hair, is proof that hair braiding has been practiced for at least 30,000 years. For most of that history, no government license was required. Yet today, in many American states, hair braiders must obtain a license — and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Alex Tabarrok

The Venus of Willendorf, a prehistoric statuette with finely braided hair, is proof that hair braiding has been practiced for at least 30,000 years. For most of that history, no government license was required. Yet today, in many American states, hair braiders must obtain a license — and that often means hundreds of hours of cosmetology training that costs tens of thousands of dollars. The absurdities and inequities of occupational licensing have been highlighted in recent years by the Institute for Justice, which has defended individuals' rights to work without a government license and has won some cases where the government failed to provide a rational basis for regulation.

Nearly a quarter of American workers now require a government license to work, compared with about 5% in the 1950s. Much of this increase is due to a "ratchet effect," as professional groups organize and lobby legislatures to exclude competitors. In her excellent book, "The Licensing Racket," the Vanderbilt law professor Rebecca Haw Allensworth presents plenty of cases of hair braiders, barbers and interior decorators who have been prevented from working by license restrictions that inflate prices without improving safety or quality. But Ms. Allensworth has bigger targets in mind.

Most people will concede that licensing for hair braiders and interior decorators is excessive while licensing for doctors, nurses and lawyers is essential. Hair braiders pose little to no threat to public safety, but subpar doctors, nurses and lawyers can ruin lives. To Ms. Allensworth's credit, she asks for evidence. Does occupational licensing protect consumers? The author focuses on the professional board, the forgotten institution of occupational licensing.

Governments enact occupational-licensing laws but rarely handle regulation directly — there's no Bureau of Hair Braiding. Instead, interpretation and enforcement are delegated to licensing boards, typically dominated by members of the profession. Occupational licensing is self-regulation. The outcome is predictable: Driven by self-interest, professional identity and culture, these boards consistently favor their own members over consumers.

Ms. Allensworth conducted exhaustive research for "The Licensing Racket, " spending hundreds of hours attending board meetings — often as the only nonboard member present. At the Tennessee board of alarm-system contractors, most of the complaints come from consumers who report the sort of issues that licensing is meant to prevent: poor installation, code violations, high-pressure sales tactics and exploitation of the elderly. But the board dismisses most of these complaints against its own members, and is far more aggressive in disciplining unlicensed handymen who occasionally install alarm systems. As Ms. Allensworth notes, "the board was ten times more likely to take action in a case alleging unlicensed practice than one complaining about service quality or safety."

She finds similar patterns among boards that regulate auctioneers, cosmetologists and barbers. Enforcement efforts tend to protect turf more than consumers. Consumers care about bad service, not about who is licensed, so take a guess who complains about unlicensed practitioners? Licensed practitioners. According to Ms. Allensworth, it was these competitor-initiated cases, "not consumer complaints alleging fraud, predatory sales tactics, and graft," where boards gave the stiffest penalties.

You might hope that boards that oversee nurses and doctors would prioritize patient safety, but Ms. Allensworth's findings show otherwise. She documents a disturbing pattern of boards that have ignored or forgiven egregious misconduct, including nurses and physicians extorting sex for prescriptions, running pill mills, assaulting patients under anesthesia and operating while intoxicated.

In one horrifying case, a surgeon breaks the white-coat code and reports a fellow doctor for performing a surgery so catastrophically botched that he assumes the practitioner must be an imposter. Others also report "Dr. Death" to the board. But Ms. Allensworth notes, "at the time of the complaints to the medical board, [Dr. Death] was only one third of the way through the thirty-seven spinal surgeries he would perform, thirty-three of which left the patients maimed or dead." The board system seems incapable of acting decisively and Dr. Death's rampage is only ended definitively when he is indicted — the initial charges include "assault with a deadly weapon," the scalpel — and eventually imprisoned.

No system is perfect, but Ms. Allensworth's point is that the board system is not designed to protect patients or consumers. She has a lot of circumstantial evidence that signals the same conclusion. The National Practitioner Data Bank (NPDB), for example, collects data on physician misconduct and potential misconduct as evidenced by medical-malpractice lawsuits. But "when Congress tried to open the database to the public, the [American Medical Association] 'crushed it like a bug.'"

One of the most infuriating aspects of the system is that the AMA and the boards limit the number of physicians with occupational licensing, artificially scarce residency slots and barriers preventing foreign physicians from practicing in the U.S. Yet when a physician is brought before a board for egregious misconduct, the AMA cites physician shortage as a reason for leniency. When it comes to disciplining bad actors, the mantra seems to be that "any physician is better than no physician," but when it comes to allowing foreign-trained doctors to practice in the U.S., the claim suddenly becomes something like "patient safety requires American training."

How can the system of occupational licensing be reformed? Here the author and I part company. Occupational licensing promised to deliver safety and quality in exchange for limiting supply, but that promise has been broken. Ms. Allensworth's reforms focus on reducing professional self-regulation. By converting licensing boards into independent government-run bureaucracies with permanent staff and enhanced resources, she would attempt to fulfill the original promise of the system.

I agree that licensing boards have failed to effectively discipline their members, but I think we should eliminate restrictions on supply. The adage "any physician is better than no physician" should not be a shield for negligent doctors, but it underscores an essential truth. The real harm lies in the scarcity created by licensing.

We deregulated airlines, trucking and natural gas, reducing prices and increasing efficiency. It's time to deregulate the professions. Alarm installers, interior decorators and hair braiders should not require a license. In cases where health and safety are at issue, Ms. Allensworth suggests replacing occupational licensing with narrowly tailored regulation. Chefs don't require an occupational license to cook, but we do require commercial kitchens to be inspected for sanitation.

Voluntary certification can effectively replace many occupational licenses. Consider computer security, one of the most critical fields for consumer safety. Instead of requiring occupational licenses, professionals in this field rely on certifications such as the CISSP (Certified Information Systems Security Professional) to demonstrate expertise and competence.

Clifford Winston of the Brookings Institution argues for eliminating occupational licensing for lawyers entirely and replacing it with a system of voluntary certification. Government has a role to play by collecting information about service quality and making it easily accessible to the public. Databases like the NPDB should be improved and opened for many professions.

The medical profession is unlikely to be delicensed, but as Ms. Allensworth's book shows, we shouldn't let the AMA dictate the terms of medical education. Many European countries offer combined undergraduate and medical degree programs that take only six years, compared to the eight or more years required in the U.S.

Advances in artificial intelligence, which Ms. Allensworth doesn't explore, may also catalyze reform. AI is already transforming fields such as legal research and medical diagnostics, automating tasks once reserved for licensed professionals. As these technologies advance, they can reduce reliance on rigid licensing systems by ensuring quality and safety through innovative tools.

"The Licensing Racket" is a pioneering investigation of a broken system. The time has come to reimagine and reform. By embracing voluntary certification, tailored regulation and technological advancements, we can create a more dynamic, inclusive and efficient labor market.

* Mr. Tabarrok is the Bartley J. Madden Chair in Economics at George Mason University.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207007797:0/)
