---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Friday at 11 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-08 00:00:00"
summary: "U.S. Added 143,000 Jobs in January; Unemployment Slipped to 4%The gain in jobs was below what was expected, but the job counts for November and December were revised upward by a combined 100,000.Americans Jittery Over Inflation, University of Michigan Survey SuggestsEconomists polled by The Wall Street Journal had expected sentiment..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**U.S. Added 143,000 Jobs in January; Unemployment Slipped to 4%**

The gain in jobs was below what was expected, but the job counts for November and December were revised upward by a combined 100,000.

**Americans Jittery Over Inflation, University of Michigan Survey Suggests**

Economists polled by The Wall Street Journal had expected sentiment to improve after dropping in January. But all index components instead deteriorated, led by sentiment around making major purchases.

**U.S. Wholesale Inventories Fell Back in December**

Stocks at U.S. wholesalers contracted in December, with the fall driven by inventories of longer-lasting goods, government data said.

**Food Prices Fell in January on Cheaper Sugar, Vegetable Oils, UN Says**

An index tracking global prices for a basket of staple foods dropped 1.6%, driven by significantly cheaper sugar and vegetable oils.

**German Industrial Production Ends 2024 on Weak Note**

Output declined 2.4% on month in December, driven by a fall in auto production, as the industrial sector faces the threat of a further slowdown from U.S. tariffs.

**India Central Bank Kicks Off Easing Cycle to Boost Economy**

The Reserve Bank of India cut its policy rate for the first time in nearly five years as economic growth slows and inflation cools.

**S&P 500 Edges Up After Nonfarm Payrolls**

U.S. stock indexes were steady to modestly higher after data showed the economy added fewer jobs than expected in January and unemployment eased.

**ECB Updates Estimate of Neutral Rate as Policymakers Question Its Worth**

The neutral rate of interest that neither spurs nor slows growth in the eurozone is between 1.75% and 2.25%, according to the European Central Bank.

**The Drug Industry Is Having Its Own DeepSeek Moment**

It isn't just artificial intelligence. Chinese biotech companies are now developing drugs faster and cheaper than their U.S. counterparts.

**Fed might need to hold rates steady 'for quite some time,' Logan says**

Even inflation falling close to 2% in the coming months might not necessarily allow the Fed to cut rates soon, Logan said.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207007846:0/)
