---
title: "Societatea Energetica Electrica SA Completion of the acquisition of CPP SRL"
date: "2025-02-08 00:05:00"
summary: "TIDMELSARNS Number : 3961WSocietatea Energetica Electrica SA07 February 2025To: Bucharest Stock Exchange (BSE)London Stock Exchange (LSE)Romanian Financial Supervisory Authority (FSA)Current report in compliance with the Law 24/2017 on issuers of financial instruments and market operations, the Romanian Capital Market Law no. 297/2004, FSA Regulation no. 5/2018, and the Bucharest Stock..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

TIDMELSA

RNS Number : 3961W

Societatea Energetica Electrica SA

07 February 2025

To: Bucharest Stock Exchange (BSE)

London Stock Exchange (LSE)

Romanian Financial Supervisory Authority (FSA)

Current report in compliance with the Law 24/2017 on issuers of financial instruments and market operations, the Romanian Capital Market Law no. 297/2004, FSA Regulation no. 5/2018, and the Bucharest Stock Exchange Code

Report date: 7 February 2025

Company name: Societatea Energetica Electrica S.A. (Electrica)

Headquarters: 9 Grigore Alexandrescu Street, 1(st) District, Bucharest, Romania

Phone no.: 004-021-2085999

Fiscal Code: RO 13267221

Trade Register registration number: J40/7425/2000

Subscribed and paid in share capital: RON 3,395,530,040

Regulated market where the issued securities are traded: Bucharest Stock Exchange (BSE) and London Stock Exchange (LSE)

Significant events to be reported: Completion of the acquisition of the project company Crucea Power Park SRL

Electrica informs the shareholders and investors that, on 7 February 2025, has completed the acquisition of the project company Crucea Power Park SRL (CPP) having as main object of activity the generation of energy from wind sources. CPP develops the eolian project company "Crucea Est", with an authorized installed capacity of 138 MW\*, and a projected electricity storage capacity\* of 60 MWh (15 MW x 4h), located outside the Crucea commune, Constanta County. The project is at the "ready-to-build" phase.

\*138 MW represents the designed installed capacity mentioned in the Grid Connection Permit. Depending on the type of turbines (and the installed unit power per turbine) that will be selected, this capacity may vary, but it will not exceed the installed power approved in the Grid Connection Permit.

\*\* The storage installation: The selected storage batteries have an installed capacity of 15 MW with a charge/discharge duration of 4 hours (60 MWh) for profiling and balancing.

"On 17 September 2024, we announced that CPP was among the winners of the first round of the Auction for the State Aid Scheme in the form of Contracts for Difference (CfD), with an allocated installed capacity of 54.0 MW, at a price of EUR 77.3250/MWh. Therefore, the transaction aligns perfectly with Electrica Group's strategic objective of developing its electricity production segment and it highlights our dedication to contributing to the development of Romania's energy sector and supporting national energy transition goals", stated Mr. Alexandru Chirita, Electrica's CEO.

Electrica informed the capital market on 28 July 2021, about the signing of the sale-purchase agreement for 100% of the shares of Crucea Power Park SRL through current reports published on BSE (IRIS Code:80AB5) and LSE.

During the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders (EGMS) on 5 February 2025, the shareholders approved the investment project to be carried out by CPP, with a total investment value of up to EUR 253,000,000, excluding VAT, as well as the granting of a loan by Electrica S.A. to CPP to finance the investment works necessary for the completion and operation of the "Crucea Est" wind power plant.

As stated in the documents made available to shareholders in the above-mentioned EGMS , the initiation of the investment will only take place after Electrica fully acquires 100% of the shares of CPP, and the funds necessary for the loan agreement will be secured by Electrica from the syndicated credit facility and bond issuance, approved through EGMS Resolution No. 2 from 8 November 2024, or from other sources.

For more information, please contact Electrica at ir@electrica.ro .

Chief Executive Officer

Alexandru - Aurelian Chirita

This information is provided by RNS, the news service of the London Stock Exchange. RNS is approved by the Financial Conduct Authority to act as a Primary Information Provider in the United Kingdom. Terms and conditions relating to the use and distribution of this information may apply. For further information, please contact rns@lseg.com or visit www.rns.com.

RNS may use your IP address to confirm compliance with the terms and conditions, to analyse how you engage with the information contained in this communication, and to share such analysis on an anonymised basis with others as part of our commercial services. For further information about how RNS and the London Stock Exchange use the personal data you provide us, please see our Privacy Policy.

END

ACQTRMITMTTMBPA

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207007895:0/)
