---
title: "Honeywell's Stock Drop Is a Warning to Break-Up Enthusiasts. It's Not Easy Being GE. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-08 01:54:00"
summary: "Al RootHopes for GE-like stock performance have made breakups all the rage these days. Investors and management teams considering corporate surgery should remember that business execution still trumps business structure.Take Honeywell. On Thursday, investors got what they wanted: A detailed plan to break the company into three parts. By the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Al Root

Hopes for GE-like stock performance have made breakups all the rage these days. Investors and management teams considering corporate surgery should remember that business execution still trumps business structure.

Take Honeywell. On Thursday, investors got what they wanted: A detailed plan to break the company into three parts. By the end of 2026, there should be a Honeywell aerospace company, a Honeywell automation company, and a Honeywell materials company.

The value pickup from the split could be substantial. Based on comparable firms, the three Honeywells could have a weighted average price-to-earnings ratio of about 28 times. Honeywell shares currently fetch about 20 times estimated 2025 earnings.

Honeywell is not alone. DuPont is also breaking into two companies, spinning off its electronics business by year-end. Auto parts maker Aptiv is breaking into two. One company will sell electrical systems to car companies, while the other company will sell software and services to multiple industries.

An activist investor even wants Boeing broken up into a commercial aerospace company, a defense business, and a services company. Boeing has given no indication that it's interested in breaking apart.

It's not hard to see why these companies would follow the GE blueprint. The three GE companies — GE HealthCare Technologies, GE Vernova, and GE Aerospace — trade for a weighted average PE of about 41 times. Before Larry Culp arrived and before GE's performance started to deteriorate, GE stock traded for closer to a market multiple. Today, the S&P 500 trades for about 22 times 2025 earnings.

The changing valuations worked magic for investors. Exact numbers aren't available since GE Vernova hasn't been fully independent for a year, and HealthCare Technologies was spun out in early 2023, but holders of all the GE stocks have roughly doubled their money over the past 12 months.

It sounds so simple, but Honeywell stock dropped almost 6% after announcing its bold new plan. The business was the problem. The midpoint of Honeywell's 2025 guidance is guidance is $10.30, up just 4% year over year. Profit margins are expected to be up by less than one percentage point.

GE Vernova improved operating profit margins by about three percentage points in 2024 and Wall Street expects margins to improve another three percentage points in 2025. Earnings per share are expected to grow 50% a year on average between 2025 and 2027, while sales grow almost 10% a year.

GE Aerospace is expected to grow earnings by almost 20% a year for the coming two years. Its profit margins expanded by about three percentage points in 2024. Margins aren't expected to improve in 2025, but that is because of the mix between new engine sales and aftermarket business. New engine shipments are expected to pick up as Boeing and Airbus deliver more planes. New engines carry a far lower margin than the parts and service business.

GE HealthCare stock hasn't performed as well as the other two. Still, its expanding margins and is expected to grow earnings by about 10% a year.

The GE experience is a reminder for investors that more than just relative PEs determine the value created in a breakup. Business execution matters far more.

Sometimes a breakup is just a breakup.

Write to Al Root at allen.root@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207008841:0/)
