---
title: "Overall Home Buying Sentiment Rose Slightly in January — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-07 23:50:00"
summary: "1050 ET - The Fannie Mae Home Purchase Sentiment Index rose slightly, by 0.3 points, to 73.4 in January, recovering from its first decline since July. This uptick was driven by increased consumer optimism about homebuying and selling conditions, as well as heightened expectations for rising home prices over the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1050 ET - The Fannie Mae Home Purchase Sentiment Index rose slightly, by 0.3 points, to 73.4 in January, recovering from its first decline since July. This uptick was driven by increased consumer optimism about homebuying and selling conditions, as well as heightened expectations for rising home prices over the next year. About 43% of respondents now expect home prices to increase, up from 38%, while the net share of people believing home prices will go up jumped 9 percentage points to 20%. However, optimism about declining mortgage rates waned, with the net share expecting lower rates dropping 13 percentage points to 3%. Additionally, 65% of consumers anticipate higher rental prices, up 8 percentage points from last month. Year-over-year, the index is up 2.7 points. Perceptions of good or bad times to buy or sell homes remained unchanged month-over-month. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1048 ET - The 10-year Treasury climbs back to 4.5% territory as fresh data bolster bets on a hawkish Fed. January jobs report showed a small decline on unemployment and firmer-than-expected earnings, while the University of Michigan confidence index fell unexpected to 67.8, its lowest level since June. Inflation expectations in the survey jumped to 4.3% from 3.3%. Markets are pricing 53% odds that the Fed will cut only once, or not at all, this year, according to CME data. That's up from 42% yesterday. The 10-year is at 4.506% and the two-year at 4.281%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1038 ET - Job creation in Canada has picked up strongly, with the 3-month average of 70,000 the fastest pace in almost two years, says TD Securities. January's jobs data indicates hiring in the goods-producing sector was the best one-month performance since 2006, when the pandemic era is excluded. Hiring was powered by manufacturing, and the firm acknowledges some of the job gains at factories was likely tied to ramped up production stemming from the risk of hefty US tariffs. TD believes a Bank of Canada rate cut is still in order for March, but the economy would have to materially slow to justify further rate cuts in 2Q. (paul.vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

1036 ET - Another round of firm looking Canadian labor market data reduces the urgency for a March rate cut from the Bank of Canada, which had signaled any further moves would be contingent on economic data continuing to look soft, says Royal Bank of Canada's Nathan Janzen. The job market surprised to the upside for a second straight month, with employment rising solidly and the jobless rate unexpectedly slipping. Still, Janzen says it may be too early to give labor markets the all clear--the unemployment rate is still up almost a percentage point from a year ago and wage growth slowed. The economist says there also remains an uncertain economic backdrop and the significant risk of U.S. tariffs, which could be announced before the BoC's next policy meeting. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

1031 ET - Las Vegas has a tight spread on the Super Bowl matchup between the Kansas City Chiefs and Philadelphia Eagles, indicating it's essentially a coin flip as to who will win. A Chiefs victory and the total points in the game coming in under 48.5 would be the best outcome for the sportsbooks, say BofA Securities analysts in a research note, citing the popularity of bets on the Eagles winning. They note that BetMGM, which is jointly owned by MGM Resorts International and Entain, has said an Eagles win could be helpful to sportsbooks overall given their liability of futures bets placed on the Chiefs. BofA says the American Gaming Association expects Americans to bet $1.4B legally on the Super Bowl this year, which is in-line with last year's handle. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

1020 ET - There was little to disappoint in Canada's January jobs numbers, with employment rising a much stronger-than-expected 76,000 and total hours worked climbing 0.9% on-month, which bodes well for 1Q GDP, Capital Economics' Thomas Ryan says. The economist says the details of the labor survey also were encouraging, with a solid rise in private-sector employment driving most of the gains. A smaller increase in the population for the month is another sign the government's new immigration policies are having an effect, he adds. Ryan says that overall it lowers the odds the Bank of Canada will again cut rates in March, though with tariffs still looming he expects the bank to err on the dovish side and reduce the policy rate a further quarter percentage point. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

1006 ET - January payrolls show U.S. labor markets somewhat tighter than expected, but not enough to challenge Fed Chair Powell's view that the labor market hasn't been a source of inflationary pressure, AllianceBernstein's Eric Winograd says. Payrolls declined to 143,000 from 307,000, but unemployment slipped to 4% from 4.1% while wage growth accelerated. Winograd says, however, that the data has been steady and consistent for several months. "There isn't anything in there that suggests the labor market is putting significant upward pressure on inflation," he says. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0957 ET - For the November-to-January period, employment in Canada rises 211,000, or an average 70,000 a month--the type of job creation that's generally tied to period of healthy growth, says BMO Capital Markets economist Doug Porter. The January data were full of strong underlying details, from a hefty 0.9% rise in hours worked and 57,000 rise in private-sector employment. "If we weren't all absorbed with the possibility of a trade war, we would be talking about the comeback in the Canadian domestic economy in recent months," Porter writes, adding this is yet another sign that aggressive rate cuts last year are beginning to bear fruit. However, the prospect of trade conflict will hover over Canada, so that keeps the possibility alive for another rate cut in March. (Paul.Vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

0935 ET - Investors are boosting the odds of a longer pause on interest rate cuts by the Fed, following January payrolls. Although job creation declined to 143,000 from 307,000, past figures were revised up. The unemployment rate surprisingly declined to 4% from 4.1% and earnings growth accelerated, all giving reasons to believe the Fed would refrain from cutting for a while. A hold in March is now priced at 91% odds, up from 84% yesterday, on the CME's FedWatch tool. Odds of only one cut or less by December are 49%, up from 42%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0930 ET - Solid Canadian job growth in January gives the Bank of Canada some flexibility should President Trump refrain from hefty tariffs on Canadian and Mexican imports in early March, says Desjardins Group economist Royce Mendes. Canada added a net 76,000 jobs, well above market expectations, with most of the hiring in the private sector. The unemployment rate fell again, to 6.6% in January after peaking at 6.9% in November. Absent hefty tariffs, Mendes says BOC might choose to keep its policy rate unchanged in March, noting BOC Gov. Tiff Macklem delivered "somewhat hawkish" remarks Thursday at a conference hosted by Bank for International Settlements. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

0930 ET - Revisions in payrolls data show stronger job creation than previously reported, indicating that U.S. labor markets are tighter than the January report could imply. Last month's payrolls were 143,000, while economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal forecast 169,000. But the December figure was revised up by 51,000 to 307,000. November's was adjusted upward by 49,000 to 261,000. Average hourly earnings growth accelerated to 0.5% from 0.3%, taking the annual gain slightly above 4%. Economists expected a slowdown on earnings. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0921 ET - Amazon is planning to allocate more than $100 billion in capital expenditure this year as part of a push to build generative AI services. UBS analysts in a research note say the capex plans are a sign of higher demand, particularly as demand for on-premise to cloud infrastructure continues as IT budgets return to form. They estimate that about 70% will be allocated to Amazon Web Services. "Even as Amazon and the broader industry continues to face a shortage in chips/components, we believe the main takeaway here is that demand for AWS continues to outpace supply," they say. Shares tick down 2.7% premarket after 1Q sales and operating income projections came up short of Wall Street's expectations. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207007769:0/)
