---
title: "Americans Jittery Over Inflation, University of Michigan Survey Suggests"
date: "2025-02-07 23:39:00"
summary: "By Joshua KirbySentiment among U.S. consumers crashed to its lowest in a half-year amid fears planned tariffs on goods could lead to higher prices, according to a bi-monthly survey.The University of Michigan's consumer-sentiment index dropped to 67.8 in mid-February from 71.1 at the end of January, according to the survey..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joshua Kirby

Sentiment among U.S. consumers crashed to its lowest in a half-year amid fears planned tariffs on goods could lead to higher prices, according to a bi-monthly survey.

The University of Michigan's consumer-sentiment index dropped to 67.8 in mid-February from 71.1 at the end of January, according to the survey released Friday.

"The decrease was pervasive, with Republicans, independents and Democrats all posting sentiment declines from January, along with consumers across age and wealth groups," said Joanne Hsu, director of the survey.

Economists polled by The Wall Street Journal had expected sentiment to improve after dropping in January. But all index components instead deteriorated, led by sentiment around making major purchases.

That was "in part due to a perception that it may be too late to avoid the negative impact of tariff policy," Hsu said. President Trump, in his first weeks into a second term, has imposed new tariffs on Chinese goods and threatened them on goods imported from Canada, Mexico and the European Union. Some economists warn American importers could pass those higher costs onto consumers, leading to a fresh spike in inflation.

Annual price inflation has fallen from the peaks reached in mid-2022, ending 2024 at 2.9%. But it remains too hot for the liking of Federal Reserve policymakers, who paused their rate-cutting cycle in January. In December, the Fed projected it will get inflation only part of the way back to its 2% target by the end of the year.

Consumers' expectations for inflation meanwhile have risen to their highest level in more than a year, the survey showed.

"Long-run inflation expectations remain elevated relative to the ... range seen in the two years prepandemic," Hsu said.

Write to Joshua Kirby at joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207007687:0-americans-jittery-over-inflation-university-of-michigan-survey-suggests/)
