---
title: "Grammer Earnings to Miss Forecasts"
date: "2025-02-07 22:43:00"
summary: "(14:09 GMT) *Grammer Revenue, Earnings Performance in 4Q Below Previous Yr(14:10 GMT) *Grammer 4Q Rev EUR449.7M(14:11 GMT) *Grammer 4Q Revenues Dropped 14%(14:11 GMT) *Grammer 4Q Operating EBIT EUR3.6M(14:12 GMT) *Grammer 4 Operating EBIT Impacted by Decline in Revenue, Higher Costs(14:13 GMT) *Grammer Saw Revenue Decline in All Three Regions(14:14 GMT)..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(14:09 GMT)** \*Grammer Revenue, Earnings Performance in 4Q Below Previous Yr  
**(14:10 GMT)** \*Grammer 4Q Rev EUR449.7M  
**(14:11 GMT)** \*Grammer 4Q Revenues Dropped 14%  
**(14:11 GMT)** \*Grammer 4Q Operating EBIT EUR3.6M  
**(14:12 GMT)** \*Grammer 4 Operating EBIT Impacted by Decline in Revenue, Higher Costs  
**(14:13 GMT)** \*Grammer Saw Revenue Decline in All Three Regions  
**(14:14 GMT)** \*Grammer FY24 Revenue Below Forecast of Around EUR2B  
**(14:14 GMT)** \*Grammer FY24 Revenue Amounted to EUR1.9B  
**(14:15 GMT)** \*Grammer Operating EBIT Expected to Be Around EUR 41M  
**(14:16 GMT)** \*Grammer: Preliminary Earnings for 2024 as a Whole Differ From Forecast  
**(14:18 GMT)** \*Grammer Shares Trade 2.5% Lower  
**(14:43 GMT)** Grammer Earnings to Miss Forecasts

By Ian Walker

Grammer said that revenue and profit for last year were below forecasts after a lower performance in the fourth quarter, based on preliminary figures.

The German car interior components and systems manufacturer said Friday that preliminary revenue for the fourth quarter was 449.7 million euros ($467 million), compared with 522.1 million euros for the comparable period a year earlier.

Revenue for the year as a whole was around 1.9 billion euros, compared to the forecast of around 2 billion euros. The company cut that guidance in October from 2.3 billion euros.

Earnings before interest and taxes for the fourth quarter fell to 3.6 million euros from 30.6 million euros due to the lower revenue and higher costs, Grammer said.

EBIT for the year is forecast to be around 41 million euros compared a previous forecast of 56.8 million euros.

The company plans to report full earnings on March 28.

Shares were down 15 European cents, or 2.5%, at 5.90 euros in mid-afternoon European trading. They are currently 23% higher over the year to date but down 9.2% over the past three months.

Write to Ian Walker at ian.walker@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207006727:0/)
