---
title: "Tech, Media & Telecom Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-08 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Technology, Media and Telecom. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1200 ET - Pinterest shares are surging on guidance for 13% to 15% revenue growth in 1Q that investors are likely seeing as a baseline for the rest..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Technology, Media and Telecom. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1200 ET - Pinterest shares are surging on guidance for 13% to 15% revenue growth in 1Q that investors are likely seeing as a baseline for the rest of the year, Wedbush analysts say in a research note. Growth is expected to accelerate sequentially this year thanks to easing year-over-year comparisons, the analysts say. Revenue should also benefit from a lapping of weak ad spending from consumer packaged goods brands last year, which has already started to show some improvement so far in 1Q, the analysts say. Pinterest also guided for 1Q Ebitda of $155 million to $170 million, ahead of current Wall Street estimates, they say. Shares rise 17% to $39.44. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

0921 ET - Amazon is planning to allocate more than $100 billion in capital expenditure this year as part of a push to build generative AI services. UBS analysts in a research note say the capex plans are a sign of higher demand, particularly as demand for on-premise to cloud infrastructure continues as IT budgets return to form. They estimate that about 70% will be allocated to Amazon Web Services. "Even as Amazon and the broader industry continues to face a shortage in chips/components, we believe the main takeaway here is that demand for AWS continues to outpace supply," they say. Shares tick down 2.7% premarket after 1Q sales and operating income projections came up short of Wall Street's expectations. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

0800 ET - Lower yields in the eurozone are driving more U.S. companies to issue euro-denominated corporate bonds, LBBW's Matthias Schell says in a note. In recent months, U.S. companies have been taking advantage of comparatively lower financing levels in Europe, issuing higher volumes of euro bonds, he says. Yields on 'risk-free' 10-year U.S. Treasury bonds are around 4.44%, higher than the yields on euro corporate bonds in the investment-grade index which are around 3.10%, LBBW says. This week, T-Mobile USA issued three new euro bonds totaling 2.75 billion euros ($2.86 billion) and IBM issued four new euro bonds totaling 3.5 billion euros. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0706 ET - BCE is looking at divestitures to lower its leverage levels. The Canadian telecom giant is targeting C$7 billion in asset monetizations in the 2024-25 period and currently it has pending Northwestel sale for up to C$1 billion and the MLSE sale for C$4.7 billion expected to close in 2H. Adam Shine of National Bank of Canada says other sales this year could include its 20% stake in NHL team Montreal Canadiens, the company's smart home business, and perhaps its two-way mobile radio business. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0508 ET - Xiaomi's share gains on Friday could be supported by a strong re-rating of China's tech sector following the launch of DeepSeek in late January, says Leping Huang, chief technology analyst at Huatai Securities. The Chinese AI start-up's affordable yet powerful model has lowered the cost of AI adoption across various sectors since it surprised markets in January. Additionally, Xiaomi hired a senior staff member from DeepSeek a few months ago to lead their AI large language model team, which could help accelerate Xiaomi's edge AI development, Huang adds. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0432 ET - Kingdee International could turn profitable in 2025 after a likely small net loss for 2024, Jefferies analysts say in a research note. Kingdee is Jefferies's 2025 top pick in China's software sector as it's on track to deliver double-digit revenue growth this year. Market competition has become more benign in recent years, while Kingdee has gained significant market share in China's enterprise resource planning market since 2020, they say. Kingdee recently said it has integrated DeepSeek into its software-as-a-service platform. The analysts think DeepSeek is a much better and cheaper open-source model than previous ones, but it is too early to discuss the return on investment. Shares last ended 15% higher at HK$12.38. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0358 ET - Horizon Robotics, one of BYD's assisted driving chip suppliers, is likely to benefit from the company's adoption of ADAS systems in its mass-market cars, Daiwa analysts write in a note. BYD aims to install the ADAS system in 60% of its car models sold in 2025, they add. Among these models, the majority will come from the Dynasty and Ocean series, priced between CNY100,000 to CNY200,000, they say. In addition to BYD, other major automakers like SAIC, Chery, GAC, Li Auto, Chongqing Changan and Bosch are also using Horizon Robotics' chips, which will further boost the company's sales. Daiwa maintains a buy rating for the stock and raises its target price to HK$6.50 from HK$5.50. Shares last traded at HK$6.04.(jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0216 ET - Cognizant Technology Solutions remains one of Nomura's top picks in India's IT services sector, Abhishek Bhandari says in a research report. The U.S.-listed Indian company says it's experiencing all-round sustained momentum in large deals across industries and service lines, and seeing improvement in contract values, the analysts says. Cognizant also says it's winning market share in financial services. However, Nomura lowers its 2025-2026 EPS estimates for the company by 3%-5% to partly reflect slightly higher tax rates. It lowers the stock's target price to US$97.00 from US$100.00, and maintains a buy rating. Shares closed at US$87.09. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2128 ET - China's national subsidy program may boost Xiaomi's smartphone shipment volumes and average selling price, HSBC Global Research analysts write in a note. The Chinese company has seen strong sales momentum in smartphones after the national subsidy program was implemented in January, they note. The program will work as a tailwind for China's Android brands with their retail prices ranging mostly below the subsidy price cap, they say. HSBC raises its non-GAAP net profit forecast for Xiaomi by 2% for 2024, 6% each for 2025 and 2026 given its positive views on its smartphone business. The brokerage maintains a buy rating on the stock and raises the target price to HK$49.90 from HK$37.90. Shares last at HK$42.50. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

2122 ET - Malaysia's technology sector may experience high volatility and weaker investor risk appetite in short term due to persistent uncertainties, Kenanga IB analyst Cheow Ming Liang says in a note. While long-term upside remains, sector volatility and negative news flow--particularly from DeepSeek's emergence--could weigh on sentiment, he notes. The semiconductor sector faces challenges from U.S. chip restrictions, AI investments, and export controls, while growth may slow as companies reassess their business models, he adds. Kenanga downgrades Malaysia's tech sector's rating to neutral from overweight, pegging Inari Amertron, P.I.E. Industrial and Kelington Group as its preferred picks in the sector. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

1611 ET - BCE's 4Q earnings report includes commentary about its dividend that is absent from previous filings for 2024 results. BCE maintains its annualized dividend of C$3.99 per common share, but adds in the 4Q report the BCE board will review its dividend policy to take into account the competitive, macroeconomic and regulatory environments, and progress the company is making on its strategic and operational roadmap. During the 4Q earnings call, BCE CEO Mirko Bibic says the company's goal is to strengthen the balance sheet and optimize the cost of capital. "That's how we're going to return value to our shareholders." BCE shares fall 6%, to C$33.76, in Toronto trading, on higher-than-normal volumes. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1511 ET - BCE intends to reduce capital spending in 2025 more than anticipated, and the company is blaming Canada's telecom regulator. CEO Mirko Bibic says the regulator, known as the CRTC, rejected this week an appeal to reconsider the regulator's 2023 ruling that would compel BCE to make available its fiber-optic internet services to other broadband providers for resale. For 2024, BCE total capex fell to C$3.9 billion, from C$4.6 billion, for a capital-intensity ratio of 16%. Bibic says the capital-intensity ratio in 2025 is likely to fall further, to 14%. "This reduction is clearly greater than what we would have done otherwise," says Bibic, referring to the CRTC's decision. (paul.vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207008518:0/)
