---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-08 02:04:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1304 ET - Newell Brands has been reducing its dependence on China for the last few years and started accelerating that effort about a year ago, CEO Chris Peterson says on a call with analysts. The..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1304 ET - Newell Brands has been reducing its dependence on China for the last few years and started accelerating that effort about a year ago, CEO Chris Peterson says on a call with analysts. The maker of Sharpies and Yankee Candles has already completed multiple insourcing products, including for finished goods and raw material components in its writing, baby and home businesses, the CEO says. Newell is also moving production from China to alternate geographies, he says. Imports from China currently account for about 15% of the company's total cost of goods sold, and a large portion of that are baby products that are exempt from tariffs, the CEO says. Newell aims to get that figure down to 10% by the end of the year. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1302 ET - Pinterest's AI thesis is taking shape, BofA Securities analysts say in a research note. The social-media platform's growing AI integration and the potential for topline acceleration are driving confidence among investors, the analysts say. "New AI-powered targeting & automation tools have a multi-year runway to boost conversion rates and further unlock platform's potential for shopping ads in 2025," the analysts add. Shares jump 18% on higher-than-expected revenue guidance for the current quarter. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1258 ET - Airbus investors will be monitoring what aircraft delivery target the European plane maker will set for the year when the company reports fourth-quarter results on Feb. 20, RBC Capital Markets analysts write in a note to clients. Airbus delivered 25 planes to customers in January, in what the analysts called a slow start to 2025. The company dispatched 766 commercial aircraft for the whole of 2024 and the analysts expect it to guide for roughly 825 deliveries this year. Commentary about supply chains will also be a key focus for investors, the analysts say. (mauro.orru@wsj.com)

1240 ET - Pinterest has managed to get its long-inconsistent engagement and monetization dynamics in sync, Benchmark analysts Mark Zgutowicz and Alex Lavigne say in a research note. That has come in part from artificial-intelligence efficiencies and a shift in marketing toward driving sales rather than just generating awareness or interest, the analysts say. The company's history of under-indexing its billions of unique first-party data seems to be in the rearview, they add. Growth in engagement across its developed markets suggests that the company's guidance for accelerating revenue growth in 1Q isn't temporary, the analysts say. Benchmark upgrades shares to buy from hold. Pinterest climbs 18%. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1230 ET - Pinterest is using artificial intelligence to drive user engagement and ad targeting in a strategy that's similar to the one Meta Platforms has been excelling with so far, Oppenheimer analysts say in a research note. The social-media platform's AI tools have boosted both user engagement and returns for its advertisers, the analysts say. Weekly active users and monthly active users have improved. The company also boasts a better, older and more affluent audience than social-media competitor Snapchat, the analysts say. Pinterest surges 18% on higher-than-expected revenue guidance for the current quarter.(dean.seal@wsj.com)

1200 ET - Pinterest shares are surging on guidance for 13% to 15% revenue growth in 1Q that investors are likely seeing as a baseline for the rest of the year, Wedbush analysts say in a research note. Growth is expected to accelerate sequentially this year thanks to easing year-over-year comparisons, the analysts say. Revenue should also benefit from a lapping of weak ad spending from consumer packaged goods brands last year, which has already started to show some improvement so far in 1Q, the analysts say. Pinterest also guided for 1Q Ebitda of $155 million to $170 million, ahead of current Wall Street estimates, they say. Shares rise 17% to $39.44. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1122 ET - Some customers who can switch from shell eggs to liquid eggs are trying to do that now, Chief Operating Officer Jeff Zadoks says in an earnings call. There's not enough supply available to meet the customer demand for liquid eggs, he added, given that liquid egg prices aren't as inflated. "As our supply comes back, that's something that we can take advantage of in the short term and hopefully in the medium to long-term to continue to add to our volumes," Zadoks says. Bird flu has ravaged U.S. poultry farms, and led to high egg prices. (roshan.fernandez@wsj.com)

1111 ET - Post Holdings says that it continues to see merger and acquisition opportunities, both large and small. Chief Operating Officer Jeff Zadoks said the company has better leverage than in the past. "We really enjoy synergy deals, as we've had in the past. So we don't really consider those less sexy. We consider those right in our wheelhouse," Zadoks says. "We think the opportunities are going to be out there, and we think we're well positioned to take advantage when the right one comes along." (roshan.fernandez@wsj.com)

1031 ET - Las Vegas has a tight spread on the Super Bowl matchup between the Kansas City Chiefs and Philadelphia Eagles, indicating it's essentially a coin flip as to who will win. A Chiefs victory and the total points in the game coming in under 48.5 would be the best outcome for the sportsbooks, say BofA Securities analysts in a research note, citing the popularity of bets on the Eagles winning. They note that BetMGM, which is jointly owned by MGM Resorts International and Entain, has said an Eagles win could be helpful to sportsbooks overall given their liability of futures bets placed on the Chiefs. BofA says the American Gaming Association expects Americans to bet $1.4B legally on the Super Bowl this year, which is in-line with last year's handle. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

0927 ET - OPEC's ample spare crude capacity provides some comfort to the market against the impact of potential supply disruptions to Iranian oil shipments, according to Capital Economics' David Oxley. The U.S. imposed sanctions on an international network facilitating the shipment of Iranian crude to China on Thursday, just days after U.S. President Trump reinstated his "maximum pressure" campaign on Tehran. Oil benchmarks rose following the news, but are still poised for weekly losses of more than 1%. "The key point is that increased enforcement on Iran's oil shipments would be a bigger deal were it not for the fact that OPEC was sitting on about 6 million barrels a day of spare capacity, some of which they will begin to bring back to the market from April," the commodities economist says. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0921 ET - The U.K. real estate sector is showing signs of recovery, especially since the Bank of England first cut interest rates last summer, Zurich Insurance Group says in its analysis of the 2025 outlook for real-estate investment. "The momentum in the U.K. market is encouraging, with listed real estate companies staging a meaningful recovery," Global Head of Real Estate & Strategy Andrew Angeli writes. The government's focus on fiscal expansion and real wage growth is expected to support the consumer sector and housing market, the analysis says. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0921 ET - Amazon is planning to allocate more than $100 billion in capital expenditure this year as part of a push to build generative AI services. UBS analysts in a research note say the capex plans are a sign of higher demand, particularly as demand for on-premise to cloud infrastructure continues as IT budgets return to form. They estimate that about 70% will be allocated to Amazon Web Services. "Even as Amazon and the broader industry continues to face a shortage in chips/components, we believe the main takeaway here is that demand for AWS continues to outpace supply," they say. Shares tick down 2.7% premarket after 1Q sales and operating income projections came up short of Wall Street's expectations. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207008900:0/)
