---
title: "Income Strategies In BDCs, Utilities, And Energy Stocks"
date: "2025-02-07 18:15:00"
summary: "Join High Dividend Opportunities today to get full access to all of Venkat's research! This video’s transcript was generated by a third party. It is not curated or reviewed and is provided for convenience and informational purposes only. The accuracy and completeness of the transcript are not guaranteed. Daniel Snyder:..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha_articles"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha_articles"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**[Join High Dividend Opportunities today to get full access to all of Venkat's research!](https://seekingalpha.com/checkout/mp_1006?%2F%3Favoid_pp=true&avoid_pp=true)**

*This video’s transcript was generated by a third party. It is not curated or reviewed and is provided for convenience and informational purposes only. The accuracy and completeness of the transcript are not guaranteed.*

**Daniel Snyder**: Hey, everyone, Daniel Snyder here from Seeking Alpha. Today, we are in for a real treat. We have a new – well, new to me, I should say, a new member of HDO, having never done a webinar with us before, coming to deliver straight information, fire, I don't know if there's any other way to put it. I mean, the dividend yields, the things we're about to dive into today is truly a treat. We've talked to Scott before, we’ve talked to Will before. Now we are here with Venkat.

So before we go ahead and dive in, I want to go ahead and get a quick legal disclaimer out of the way. So stand by.

Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Any views or opinions expressed in the webinar do not reflect those of Seeking Alpha as a whole. Seeking Alpha does not take account of your objectives or your financial situation and does not offer any personalized investment advice. Seeking Alpha is not a licensed security dealer, broker, U.S. investment adviser, or investment bank.

Information provided by the investing group does not constitute investing advice. Investing group leaders are third-party authors that include both professional investors and individual investors who may not be licensed or certified by any institute or regulatory body. Any content and tools on the platform are offered for information purposes only.

And now I know, I mean, look, we have 1,200 of you here live with us right now, more still joining as we just kick this off. And I know what you're thinking, dividend yields, I want as much as I can, I want to manage the risk. And some of you, I don't know if you've seen the new ETF Spotlight series we have here, but we had the one this morning that just released with Charles Schwab about SCHD. They were talking about how they get their 4% yield steady.

But what about High Dividend Opportunities, the group that is focused on getting a 9% dividend yield? Venkat, please correct me if I'm wrong in that, but I'm pretty sure it was 9% yield, which doubles the SCHD. So I'm excited to have you here today…

**Venkat Raghavan**: That is correct.

**DS**: …and dive into the stocks that you're looking at, the funds and everything else from, I mean, we're going to talk energy, we're going to talk regulation and everything else. So Venkat, thank you for being on the show.

**VR**: Thank you, Daniel. Nice to be here.

**DS**: So I would like to dive in from the start, if you don't mind. Not everybody is aware of who you are. It's a pleasure to meet you and have another representative from HDO joining us here. Why don't you just go ahead and start by giving us a little bit about your background, how you started writing in the investing world and how you ended up at High Dividend Opportunities where you are today?

**VR**: Certainly. Thank you, Daniel. It's very nice to be here and wow, 1,200 plus. I did not expect that, pretty impressive. So again, I'm by trade, I'm an engineer by qualification. I have worked as a management consultant, technology consultant. I'm currently providing cybersecurity services. So that's the professional side of me.

And I started writing on Seeking Alpha in 2019 as a way to keep myself more organized with my investments, to keep myself more current on what's happening with my companies, and it just evolved into a very passionate hobby since and – so that's 2019. And then I started collaborating very closely with HDO since 2021.

I focus on strategic changes that businesses are going through. And that – that's the kind of naturally fit into the investment world. I write a lot about energy companies, utility companies, preferred stocks and baby bonds on the HDO side.

**DS**: Yeah, that's amazing. So obviously, a lot of different ways to make yield in this environment. And there's a lot of shifts that are going on. People are watching the interest rates. We're seeing rate cuts get pushed out. We're still looking at, okay, well, maybe dividends, what companies do we look at? I could lock in a solid 4.5% yield for a little bit, or I can find these companies that you seem to uncover here and we can talk about today that have that dividend yield plus potential capital gain at the same time. So for some of these, I will say at least. Why don't we go ahead and start diving into some of the things that we're going to talk about though today. I know we're going to start here with Trump tariffs and tax cuts, right?

**VR**: Certainly. Certainly. And as you mentioned, like, we can seek yields of all sorts of percentages that we want. Sometimes when a company supports a high yield, it can be because of the structural mispricing. It could be severely undervalued or it could be structured in such a way that it has to pay out a high dividend for regulatory purposes.

So there are three topics that I want to talk about today. The first one we’ll start with the Trump tariffs and tax cuts. So we saw in 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act lowered corporate taxes significantly. And it also brought in some meaningful exemptions for capital investments. And we saw small businesses invest very heavily in assets, equipment and other meaningful assets for the businesses.

And similar promises have been made in this election campaign. And the second term for President Trump is looking quite promising in terms of deregulation, as well as which would immediately bring in lower compliance costs, as well as lower taxes for the corporations. These are essentially drivers for greater free cash flows for the companies.

And we expect that the companies would, particularly those that are asset-heavy, like construction, utilities, manufacturing, to take advantage and expand their business by leasing new assets, purchasing new assets, all sorts of things.

So, as part of that, I'm going to talk about BDCs, business development companies. So when we talk about the American economy, normally, most people get the idea of Apple or Google or Microsoft, Facebook, these are the big companies, mega caps. But it's important to note that almost 45% of the American economy, the GDP, is from small- and medium-sized businesses. Over the past 12 years or so, they've contributed to over 55% of the job growth.

So it's a pretty substantial portion of the American economy and important driver of the economy if you might, and these companies need capital to grow. And it's not like these small companies can access loans from banks, it's not that easy for them.

So in 1980, the U.S. Congress regulated the establishment of business development companies. These are publicly traded non-bank lending institutions. Their sole job is to provide capital to small- and medium-sized businesses, U.S.-based for the most part.

And as a result, like they are registered investment companies, they're required to pay out 90% of their profits to shareholders in the form of dividends. And they pursue the capital, they deploy capital into companies in multiple ways. And to keep it on a high level, it's either debt transaction or they take equity positions in their target companies.

And it's often assumed that because BDCs lend money to institutions, to companies, BDCs may only do well when rates are going up or even when rates are on the higher side. And it's assumed that with – now that we're almost 100 basis points down from the peak rates and potentially looking to go lower, it may not be the best time to buy BDCs, but that's not entirely true.

BDCs, if you look at it, these small- and medium-sized businesses, even when the interest rates are close to zero, right, in 2021, 2022, there were many companies that were borrowing at over 10% because that's the reality. Like they are not investment-grade, they're not sustainably profitable. They have a lot of challenges that they need to overcome, which is why the cost of borrowing is pretty much high - on the higher side. And that's why BDCs are able to consistently issue loans at over 10%, 13% even sometimes, right?

So in fact, I think about a year ago, we wrote an article about Ares Capital, one of the largest public BDCs. And we looked at its cost of lending, the weighted average yield on the investment versus their weighted average cost of borrowing. And over 10 years or so, it's pretty much been that difference in the borrowing and the lending costs has consistently been between 7% to 5%, which indicates a lot of stability across rate cycles. Any questions before I proceed?

**DS**: We're going to dive into a few. I think one that everybody is kind of wondering, I see here one in the chat actually, is what is the HDO thought about with a name like BIZD here, the VanEck BDC Income ETF, the expense ratio is 13.33%. How does the crowd at HDO, how does a team kind of evaluate that when you're looking to get a yield from a company that charges or an ETF that charges that level of expense ratio?

**VR**: That's an excellent question, and we get asked that question a lot. In fact, BIZD it's an ETF, it's a fund of funds. So, all its constituents are BDCs, which are considered funds for regulatory purposes.

Now, the actual expense ratio for BIZD is only 0.4%. That's what the fund manager charges for the management of the portfolio. The remaining that you see the 12-point something, it's essentially the cost that they are required to disclose, but it's not a direct expense for the ETF. It's essentially the expense that is borne by the underlying BDCs.

So as an investor, they're not going to charge you 13%. It's a concept that applies to fund the funds. And I would encourage people who have that question to review some of our articles on the same ETF, where we explain in-depth what that means and why it is not what it looks like.

**DS**: Thank you for answering that. We had another question here as well, which I think we should answer is business development companies. I think you might have mentioned it briefly, but maybe you could dive a little bit deeper into it. What is the biggest risk for this area of the market?

**VR**: It's a credit investment, right? So we're looking at the default rates. So BDCs need to proactively manage this by risk management – underwriting quality is very important for BDCs. They have to be very selective in their lending. So what happens when interest rates go down is economic activity improves, companies want to borrow more money.

So BDCs have a lot of opportunity to pursue lending and they need to get very selective in who they lend to and they need to keep monitoring their holdings, their portfolio to make sure that the risk rating is optimized and their defaults are under control, right? It can very easily – it can be a contagion. One, two companies, it starts that way. And suddenly, with – especially with the hawkish rate cycle, you can have like a spree of defaults and it can seriously impact the net asset value.

So that's a risk that we need to keep. If you're investing in individual BDCs, you need to keep an eye out on the quarterly risk rating reports that they throw in.

**DS**: Thanks for answering that. There's another question here. Are you concerned at all about the rise in borrowers utilizing PIK, the payment-in-kind interest payments?

**VR**: Not exactly concerning. Obviously, it's something to keep in mind, something to monitor. If a BDC is relying very excessively on PIK, probably I would personally stay away from those. In fact, I think in the HDO portfolio, we have one BDC who relies mostly on PIK, but we hold their preferred shares.

So we would optimize the portfolio risk by moving higher up in the capital structure in certain BDCs like that. It's essentially – it's basically like extending the loan with more loans and it's nothing that causes immediate concerns. It's certainly a time-tested technique that BDCs pursue when it comes to lending.

**DS**: Victoria here would like to know, what is a typical loan term for a BDC? And sorry, I just lost the question here. What is typical loan term? These things are jumping all over the place. Are these secured or unsecured loans?

**VR**: Yeah. So again, BDCs have a lot of flexibility in how they structure the loans. We generally look for a BDC whose portfolio is mostly senior secured loans. So they are higher up in the capital structure. Potentially, we would look for first-line senior secured loans. So they are the first in line to access the company's assets if there is any trouble with the borrower. They're secured mostly.

So if you look at the one that's displayed on screen here, like SLR Capital - Corporation, it's over 98% senior secured. So that's the kind of quality we expect. And the same is the structure for a BDC and like a blue chip BDC like Ares Capital or OBDC and other such BDCs that are typically things we cover.

And you asked about the loan term, that really varies. It's generally a longer-term commitment. And – but BDCs do reserve the rights to sell the loan early on. Again, risk management is an important piece of their business. They would – I would expect my BDCs to cut their losses and move on whenever there is an issue.

And it’s – we've seen it time and again where they – and they also have, as part of the deal, as part of the loan, they can take bold positions. They have significant influence over their borrowers. They can direct management to make necessary changes. They can prioritize cash flows towards debt payments or debt covenants and interest payments and protect their investments essentially.

So I would expect the high-quality BDCs to be actively managing their portfolio and exerting meaningful strategic influence on their borrowers.

**DS**: There's a great question here that I want to ask before we can move on to the energy drill baby drill part. We got to keep it moving. There's just a ton of interest here about BDCs. But there's a lot of private equity out in the markets now. And there's a lot of people what sometimes feels like chasing a limited number of quality deals. Do you have any worries about so much capital chasing so little of those deals?

**VR**: Are you talking about like private? And is it the BDC lending that…

**DS**: Yeah, just more of a competition for these BDC companies.

**VR**: Well, loan origination activity is very strong with the BDCs, like there's extremely strong demand for capital. Even when interest rates were rising, we saw promising deal volumes, obviously, lesser than during the zero interest rate environment.

And as the interest rates go down, we expect the economic activity to pick up. And we're already seeing it with BDCs like SLRC. They're reporting significant deal originations with equipment financing, asset-based lending, which are core components of its lending strategy.

We must remember that small- and medium-sized businesses, they carry credit risks, right? Like they're not investment-grade, there's very little known about their financials. So – and then banks have significantly stepped back in terms of risk, taking this kind of risk.

So we have a limited number of BDCs that are out there. And for the most part, many BDCs pursue very niche strategies. And SLRC here specifically focuses on equipment financing and asset-based lending, whereas a different BDC has different strategies. So it's – there's always room for more capital for small- and medium-sized businesses.

**DS**: Yeah, hopefully, we continue to get that credit creation and the economy keeps moving forward, right? Let's go ahead and move on though, keep this thing going. I mean, we're diving in here, getting into BDCs, but I don't want to miss sight of all the other stuff that you brought for us today. So why don't we go ahead and move on to drill baby drill? Why don't you give us the walkthrough here?

**VR**: Certainly. I mean, this has been the talk of the town for over a year now, especially with all the elections going on, with the geopolitical conflicts, with oil supply. Oil prices were extremely high not too long ago, and it's always a balance between supply and demand. And what we're seeing now is the EIA is projecting over 13 million barrels per day in production from the U.S., and we've heard OPEC+ is looking to scale back on its production.

So we expect supplies to continue to remain tight. Very recently, President Trump has been asking Saudi Arabia to increase production and bring down oil prices. And he's also been talking about drill baby drill, which essentially means like, go ahead and keep drilling more and more oil and bring down the prices.

Now that may not be the best for the energy companies. Like companies like Exxon Mobil have already come out and said that, hey, we're not really looking to flood the market with a lot of oil. It's not in their best interests. Like these companies generally benefit when oil prices are on the higher side. But – so again, like what will actually happen? We don't know, but we are prepared to handle a wide variation in oil prices through the investments that we'll discuss today.

And then speaking about energy prices, like natural gas last year was amongst multi-year lows in terms of prices. And we expect it to jump significantly this year, given the significantly colder weather, the Arctic blast and everything, like natural gas prices have bounced significantly from the bottom.

And today, I want to talk about some royalty investments that investors can consider to directly participate in higher oil and gas prices. And so when it comes to investing in energy, you have even within the sector, you have many choices like sub-sectors. You have the upstream companies, which essentially are the exploration and production companies, right, your Exxon Mobil, Shell, ConocoPhillips and Chevron. You have the midstream companies, which maintain a massive portfolio of assets, like pipelines, and fractionators, and deepwater docks and whatnot. And then you have the downstream companies, which are your chemical companies and your refineries.

So if you look at it, higher oil prices benefits the upstream companies because they're producing it, but it tends to hurt the downstream companies because they are buying it. Whereas midstream in the middle, again, if they are run well and if they are optimized, they should not be impacted by fluctuating oil prices. They should remain steady. In fact, I have a chart to show later on about one such midstream company that has just continued to grow its EBITDA through oil price moves.

So I'll move here. So speaking about the upstream companies, like royalties are my personal favorite when it comes to taking advantage of the upstream. So Kimbell Royalty Partners, which goes by the ticker KRP, it's one of my personal favorites given the demand for natural gas and the fact that we had – we were not – we’re not too off – too far off from those low prices. And all the logos that you see here on the right are essentially the companies that drill and extract oil from the acreage that KRP owns.

So KRP is a royalty firm, like they own royalty interests in lands in popular basins, in shale basins in the United States. In fact, I think 90 operating rigs are under their acreage, which represents around 16% of all the land rigs in the United States. So they have a significant market share in the exploration and production.

And all the logos you see there are some of the top-tier companies, which every barrel of oil they extract, every cubic feet of natural gas they extract, a little bit of it just goes into KRP's pocket and a little bit of that comes into investors pockets. Any questions?

**DS**: I just want to point out we do have people here joining via phone. So for audio purposes, what you have here on the screen is I mean, you got the OXY, ConocoPhillips, Exxon, you got all the big players here that are part of Kimbell Royalty Partners.

But you also mentioned here, there's no K-1 for them. And then most of the 2024 distributions are not considered dividends for federal income tax purposes. So that's very nice. And yeah, there we go in the chat. Never mind. I didn't see the answer.

Yeah, I'm just trying to help you guys along the way here. But the 30/52/18. So you're showing the breakdown here of what is that percentage-wise of the overall royalty payments is from crude oil?

**VR**: No, it's the exposure to the commodity itself. So when it comes to royalties, it's very important to understand what is it that you're getting royalties from. So royalties can be very powerful investments. Like everybody is sort of music royalties. We’ve all - I'm sure everybody is familiar with Seinfeld. And like the show ended some 20 something years ago. But every time it's rerun, like Jerry Seinfeld gets millions of dollars, like that's the power of royalties.

Same goes for the – every time you go the Harry Potter world in Orlando, J. K. Rowling collects a healthy portion of that expense. So here with Kimbell Royalty Partners, you're looking at a – at least based on FY 2024 so far, 30% exposure to crude oil, 52% exposure to natural gas revenues, and 18% exposure to NGLs. So that's the breakdown.

So if you look at it, KRP is more exposed to natural gas and NGLs, which I personally like because again, the demand is – NGLs is like production, manufacturing - plastics and so on. Natural gas is like a wide range of purposes like exports and energy and so on. It's not just the vehicles and driving demand per se. But what you see in the lower side of the slide is Dorchester Minerals, DMLP, it's mostly crude oil.

So 94% of its exposure is to crude oil revenues. And they actually do issue a K-1, but they manage their portfolio and their operations in such a way that they don't generate any unrelated business taxable income like the UBTI. So again, we expect all shareholders to exercise their own due diligence, but it could be okay to hold across accounts.

**DS**: So there's a quick question here that I think we should touch on. Kind of looking just for clarification, right, so we said most of the distributions are not considered dividends for federal income tax purposes for Kimbell Royalty Partners. Maybe you could just explain a little bit more for the people listening that are having some questions about what are they kind of taxed as? There's some confusion there for them.

**VR**: Yeah. So KRP used to be a partnership. They used to issue a K-1 until a few years ago. I can't remember when off the top of my head, but now they are a C-Corp for tax purposes. So they will issue a 1099. But as part of that structuring, right, we still see substantial portion of dividends or distributions rather coming in the form of not taxed at the federal tax level.

So this would lower your cost basis. Every time, every dollar you receive in dividends would essentially lower your cost basis until your cost basis becomes zero. And after that, it gets taxed. Every payment you receive gets taxed as long-term capital gains. And you essentially get taxed on this when you sell it.

So let's say you bought it at $15 per share, you held it for a few years, you collected, say, $5 in distributions. Now when you sell, $10 was your cost base, so you'll be taxed on the capital gain.

**DS**: So the HDO community is definitely here. There's a question here for you. I won't say who it's from, but is DMLP IRA safe?

**VR**: Again, like we don't – we typically stay away from tax advice. I would recommend them to consult their accountant for this. Personally, I hold the MLP in my IRA and it's been five years and I've not faced any issues again, because the company specifically mentions the UBTI free aspect in their annual filings. But again, like this is something that everybody should review and make sure that they're aware of what they're getting into.

**DS**: All right. Venkat, thank you so much for that. Also just make sure everybody that's listening to this as well, the two tickers here are KRP and DMLP. Why don't we go ahead and move into the midstream?

**VR**: Certainly. So we talked about royalties. They're very sensitive to commodity prices. In fact, in the previous slide, there was a small matrix. Companies like KRP will do a very good job of telling you if the oil price is in this range and if the gas price is in this range, then you can expect so much in annual distributions.

So it's very, very variable in terms of – in fact, every quarter the distribution is different and investors need to be aware of that when they invest. But moving on to midstream, this is where you get stability, right? You get – they have a wide asset base. In fact, if you look at EPD here, Enterprise Products Partners, 50,000 miles of pipeline, 42 natural gas processing trains, right, like and the other assets mentioned there.

So it's very substantial. When I asked, in fact, in one of the articles I wrote about EPD very recently, I asked ChatGPT, how much time – if money were no objection, how much time would it take for a company to stand up this level of an infrastructure?

And the answer I got, like obviously, ChatGPT gets very chatty. It's a very long verbose answer, but every piece of infrastructure that's mentioned here, you're looking at a 10- to 15-year timeline to build. And the miles of pipeline, that was double. So 20- to 30-year estimate to build out the entire asset.

So that's the – when a large midstream company naturally enjoys substantial competitive advantage in terms of the amount of time, money, again, I meant – I did give that assumption if money were no objection, that's not the case. Like money is definitely something that matters when it comes to making investments. There's engineering design considerations, there's population displacement potentially because pipeline has to run beneath surfaces. It needs to cover a vast area. It needs to move from the shale basins all the way to export terminals and so on.

So with the midstream, what we're seeing today, like especially the top-tier operators, they're very fiscally responsible now. They have a self-funding model. They're generating free cash flows in excess of the distributions. They are funding their own capital projects. In fact, EPD specifically has almost $6 billion worth of infrastructure that's coming live in the second half of 2025.

And the good thing about midstream is that, given the number of companies is just so few, the assets are so sought after, the moment these assets come live, they're already contracted for multiple years, if not decades, in a long-term fee-based cost structure essentially.

So it's take-or-pay, whether the exploration company utilizes the bandwidth that's given to them or not, they still have to make payments. It's like buying the Internet connection and whether you watch Netflix every day or whether you just browse your email, you're still paying the same monthly amounts. That's how EPD and other midstream companies, again, if they're operationally sound, they should not have correlation with energy prices.

They are pursuing significant unit purchases. They're buying back their own units. They're reducing debt. This is a sharp contrast from, say, 10 years ago when they were taking on a lot of debt and they were trying to invest heavily into infrastructure, but now they're being very conservative when it comes to investments. They're only investing what they're earning and they're increasing dividends to shareholders.

So EPD specifically, this one does both the midstream companies mentioned today like EPD and Western Midstream, which goes by WES, W-E-S, they both issue - they’re master limited partnerships. They issue a K-1 to shareholders and they've been like EPD specifically just delivered a 4% increase to its quarterly distribution and it's been increasing it for consecutively for almost 26 years now.

**DS**: So you just mentioned and answered some of the questions I had for you. But they – so the two tickers here, EPD, second one, WES, Western Midstream, they both issue K-1s. Do they have the UBTI as well?

**VR**: Yes. We can expect UBTI. It is not recommended to hold these midstream MLPs in a retirement account. It’s – it would be good if you hold them in a taxable account because again they enjoy the tax deferred distributions. Again, every dividend, every distribution payment you receive will reduce your cost basis by a certain amount. Essentially, you don't pay tax on it now. You will be taxed in the future when your cost basis goes to zero or should you decide to sell it?

**DS**: So kind of curious here, there was a couple of questions about these two Enterprise Products Partners and Western Midstream versus something more like a Hess Midstream LP, which is I think a little bit more recognizable across and just name-wise. Why not HESM?

**VR**: We've looked at HESM. It's just that, again, nothing against it. I haven't looked very closely at HESM, but whatever I saw, it looked quite promising. We did consider it, but given our exposure to midstream right now with EPD and WES, we felt comfortable with the current allocation.

But no, midstream MLPs, they can be significantly undervalued. Like EPD, of course, like it's the creme de la creme of midstream companies. But WES, if you look at it, it's a Russell 3000 constituent and it maintains an investment-grade balance sheet. But it still supports a yield that's over 8%, which is quite rare in its peers and it's a much smaller midstream company, too.

So we like our allocation to WES at this time. It's got a meaningful asset base. And it’s, in fact, speaking about WES, they have – they've highlighted a goal for FY 2024 saying, and they did increase their distribution substantially early on in 2024, and they said that if they achieve two goals, we're looking at an enhanced distribution, which is like a special in 2025.

And those two goals are their debt should be below 3x EBITDA, and they should be generating free cash flows in excess of the distributions. And as of the third quarter, both of those were true. So let's see how the fourth quarter goes. I think they're reporting in a few weeks. And we might even be looking at an enhanced distribution in the new year.

**DS**: All right. So another question for you. How do these commodity-based companies, and energy here, how do they kind of withstand during commodity cycles?

**VR**: It's a very good question. In fact, that naturally flows into the next slide here, which – so there's this company called ONEOK, which is a large midstream corporation, not MLP. It's a corporation based in Oklahoma, which I've followed quite a bit. And they publish this chart as part of their investor presentation every quarter.

And if you see this, like you have over 10 years of data here, oil price has been violently fluctuating in this period. We've seen the oil crash in 2016, we've seen the oil crash during COVID, and then we've seen the price surge post-COVID as the economy started recovering.

But these companies, right, like again, they're fiscally responsible, they've been managing their portfolio carefully, they've been investing diligently in expanding their assets and they've been making tuck-in acquisitions.

So anytime they expand their asset, that's accretive to their income. Anytime they acquire another company, immediately they start making money out of it. And so you see ONEOK has been reporting nothing, but growing EBITDA over the violent commodity price cycles.

This is because the way they structure their deals is they'll go to a company like OXY or Exxon Mobil and they'll be like 10 years, you can transport so much volume in our pipeline or you can store so much in our facilities or you can use our terminals. And well, no matter how much you use, you have to pay us so much and it's a 10-year deal.

So whether - it's a take-or-pay contract, so it doesn't matter. If the oil price drops, perhaps Exxon Mobil will cut their production, but they've still contracted, they're still contractually obligated to make those payments that they've committed.

Of course, oil price changes do affect their negotiation and future deals that they sign with the companies. Like the – when a new facility comes live, those terms obviously will be set based on the current prices, but they have facilities coming live all the time. So they've balanced the go-live of their portfolio, which essentially gives them – they essentially average out the impact of price changes.

**DS**: Thanks for walking us through that. So we talked about upstream, we talked about midstream. Why don't you go and walk us through downstream before we can start diving into some data center stuff?

**VR**: Sure thing. So downstream, this is again, interesting and currently quite out of favor if you ask me because oil prices are on the higher side, their margins have experienced compression, some smaller companies are losing money as well.

Let's just say that this is an undervalued sector right now for the most part. And it's boring as it gets and there's not much interest. But as income investors, right, we don't really look for things that are up and hot in the top now. We try to buy across the industry cycles and across investment types. And that includes sometimes purchasing like, making purchase of companies that may be out of favor right now.

So this is an off-cycle for the downstream company. So LyondellBasell is one of the companies that we have on the Spotlight here. So it yields about 7%. It's one of the largest chemical manufacturers in the U.S. and in the world actually. They maintain licensing trademarks for essential petrochemicals, and it's also an S&P 500 constituent.

So this company, they have – obviously, it's a downstream company. So its free cash flows and EBITDA is going to be fluctuating through the oil price cycles and lower - and suppose we actually experienced drill baby drill and we end up seeing lower energy prices that can bode really well for a company like this.

So again, if you look at the spectrum, we have upstream, we have midstream and downstream letting us get good exposure to varying ranges of oil price and natural gas price cycles. So with LyondellBasell specifically, they are looking to do – they are actually doing a strategic review of certain less profitable assets.

In fact, they are in the process – this quarter, they're in the process of shutting down a 100-year-old refinery in Houston. Because that refinery, when it was set up over 100 years ago, it was depending on energy, like oil purchases from Venezuela and Mexico. But ever since the shale oil boom in the U.S., like that refinery has not been very profitable, like because there have been newer refineries that cater to the oil that's produced in the Texas area.

So that is one. And then they're also disposing, maybe disposing is the wrong word. Like they're looking at strategic alternatives for six of their European assets as well, which have experienced some struggling margins over the years. And they've been investing in what I think is a very interesting venture because they are experts in chemicals and polymers. They are looking to – they call it MoReTec. They are looking to collect plastic waste and recycle and put it back as new plastic products in the market.

So in fact, they have a facility that's up and coming in Germany and Italy. And they're projecting almost $1 million in cumulative EBITDA addition by 2030 from this new business segment and looking to process like 2 million tons of plastic waste annually in that facility that's coming live.

So it's a promising new area that's coming out for this company. Again, as I mentioned, like free cash flows have been fluctuating, but this company pays out 70% of its free cash flow as dividends to shareholders. They've been aggressively buying back shares. I think if memory serves right they've bought back almost 45% of their company over the past 10 years or so, which is quite substantial.

And in terms of pricing and in terms of operations, the company is looking to run its facilities at around 75% to 80% capacity. That's an adjustment that these companies make to cater to the current demand and price scenario. So 2025 looks promising for this company and we are happy to lock in the current cheap valuations and collect those big qualified dividends.

**DS**: Yeah. As you've been talking about this company, I pulled it up here on Seeking Alpha Premium. It's got a pretty good dividend grade safety of a B, so pretty solid there. I did notice the dividend growth has been happening over the last 11 years, 13 years, like consecutive dividend payouts here with the yield that you mentioned there.

And then even the stock price over the same 10-year, it's kind of within a range that looks like. So it looks pretty stable for the most part while paying out that yield to you. So nice throwing that on my radar for me. Wanted to see if you could walk us through these diversified funds.

**VR**: Yeah. So again, like diversified funds are a big portion of what we do at HDO as well because we like all these companies, but realistically, we can only buy so many individual companies. So you look at both of these are BlackRock CEFs, closed-end funds. So the first one is BGR. It has 29 holdings, primarily energy.

So all the companies we discussed today, we talked about today, right, like those Exxon Mobil, Shell, Phillips 66 and so on, all of them are some of the top holdings in BGR. It pays an 8.7% yield right now. As a fund, both the funds listed here are – do not use leverage as part of their investment strategy. They're actively managed. So we can expect these experts who manage these funds to move in and out of positions and realize meaningful capital gains for us. So BGR is purely energy exposure. Again, as I mentioned, it's 29 holding companies.

BCX, on the other hand, it's a branch away from energy. It is energy, but it's also agriculture and mining, potentially solid sectors for a growing population. It pays a slightly higher yield than BGR. It's also a much bigger fund altogether. I think it's more than 2x the size of BGR and it has about 50 – 47 holdings, I have in my notes.

So both very good investments. In fact, they’ve - for a while both been trading at a very significant discount to their net asset value and BlackRock has been pursuing a tender offer which probably is beyond the scope of today's webinar, but I encourage listeners to read some of our recent articles that describe the tender offer in more detail.

But BlackRock is essentially every quarter or so, they're buying whatever shares you're agreeing to tender at a premium to the current market price, instantly letting shareholders realize the short-term gain on their investment. And they can just go back to the market and buy it. So it would basically not really diminish their holding, and they can continue to collect excellent distributions from these ones.

**DS**: Yeah. So for everybody listening right now, not seeing the visuals here, Energy and Resources Trust, ticker BGR, and Resources & Commodities Strategy Trust, ticker BCX, and of course, we had LyondellBasell for the downstream, that's ticker LYB.

Now I know we're coming up here 15 minutes away from the hour. I want to make sure that we get through this last section that we told everybody that we were going to talk about as well, data center proliferation. This is obviously a hot, hot topic going into – well, it's not even just going into this year, it's been on everybody's radar for a while now. So what are we looking at here?

**VR**: I mean, like if you look at data centers, right, this is not new information. Like over the past, for 10, 15 years, we've just been using our phones more and more. And there's less and less that we install on our laptops or computers these days. We're pretty much consuming everything on the cloud.

And there used to be this popular phrase, “Oh, cloud, that's just somebody else's computer.” It's true. The cloud is actually somebody else's computer, except that that computer is a lot more powerful and multiple people like, and we're talking about millions of people are utilizing that computer at the same time.

So it has to be significantly high in processing capacity, which means it will consume significant amount of energy. These metrics, I think, are quite popular these days, but ChatGPT, which is seeing soaring adoption in recent months, years, any search you do on ChatGPT consumes 10x more electricity than a simple Google search. And data centers are required, massive data centers are required to power the growing cloud services, not to mention AI that's proliferating in the market now. And they need significant amount of energy to cool these power-hungry systems. They need a lot of power to run them. They need a lot of water.

So a lot of resources required to keep these operational. And experts are projecting a three-fold increase in data center capacity by 2030, which is just five years from now. And that will automatically lead to a significant increase in the power that's consumed. Like data centers are expected to consume almost up to 12% of the country's electricity in the U.S. And it's not like these data centers, they don't work nine to five, they're online 24/7, anytime, anywhere they have to be operational.

So power is extremely important, which is – and then very recently, if you look at the Q4 earnings that are coming off in the tech companies, the few that have reported, I'm already looking at almost $250 billion or more, perhaps being invested in AI, which would be data centers and whatnot.

So investors are – analysts and investors are looking at that expense and they're like, whoa, that's amazing. But where is all that money going? I would want to be invested in companies that are tapping into that expense and collecting it.

So utility companies are some of the companies that I'm looking at closely and mainly through diversified funds. We're hearing companies like Vistra Corporation and Talen Energy and Southern Energy signing up big power purchase agreements and we want exposure to all of them, like basically all of them.

So you have the Reaves Utility Income Fund, like the UTG, and then the Cohen & Steers Infrastructure Fund, which goes by UTF, excellent monthly distributions. They maintain excellent exposure to most of these prominent utility companies in the U.S., including some telecom exposure as well.

The UTG is a smaller fund. It has about 59 holdings, whereas UTF is much, much bigger and diversified at 272 holdings. Both have been up and around since 2004, 20-plus years of steady monthly distribution. It's like, it's – some of the – and they're amongst the prominent beneficiaries of all the AI spending that's going into power purchase agreements.

**DS**: Yeah. I don't think that's slowing down anytime soon either. These are actually really great funds; just pulling up here on Seeking Alpha and like as you mentioned, you're getting that nice diversified approach across all the big names. But the fixed income side here is that also in regards to the data center approach or are these just kind of like bonus names here?

**VR**: They are very closely tied to the data center growth. So DigitalBridge, it used to be known as Colony Capital before it used to be a REIT, but in recent years, they've transformed into an alternative asset manager. Actually, one of the – it is one of the largest alternative asset managers that exclusively focuses on data centers, in fiber deployments, small cells, pretty much any infrastructure that's required for data centers.

And we don't really want to tap into the common stock, but the preferreds, like there are three of them, DBRG, Series H, Series I, and Series J. They're yielding 7.4% right now, pretty steady income. The dividend is substantially covered by the company's operations. In fact, the company has also started paying a common dividend, common stock dividend, which provides an additional layer of coverage because DBRG preferreds are cumulative perpetual preferreds.

So the company may choose to, and they're all trading posts call date right now. So the company may, at their discretion, choose to call them, which means we'll realize a small capital gain until we keep collecting dividends until then. Or the company may just choose to keep the preferred outstanding for a very long time, which is good for us. We'll just continue to collect those wonderful dividends.

And the second one is Brookfield Renewables. Like it's a BEPH, BEPI, BEPJ. Those are baby bonds. It's a little interesting. They're not like conventional baby bonds. These are more like perpetual baby bonds. They – they can – they’re essentially forever loans, but they're offering like almost a 7.2% interest right now. So good investments for those seeking a more conservative approach to fixed income, but still want to tap into that AI spending and data center growth.

**DS**: Yeah, thank you for that. Now, before we dive into a few Q&A here, I want to go ahead and mention as well that if you liked all the picks today, you like the research that we've been going through, if you want more of that, if you have more questions for High Dividend Opportunities, I want to mention that they are doing a $49 paid trial right now.

So I'm going to go ahead and drop the link in the chat for you. If you're watching the replay, the link will be beneath the video as well. Go ahead, check them out, and you can always ask as many questions as you want to the entire team over there, a lot of great guys there.

Now, there's some questions coming in that I want to touch on. So I mean, we did cover a lot of tax – there was a lot of tax questions coming in. So we didn't touch on every single tax - implementation of these funds and things like that. So I would encourage everybody to do a little bit more research there on that front. What are your thoughts on things like PCE preferreds? You have a thought on that?

**VR**: PCE, which company is that again?

**DS**: PCE Preferreds. It's an Income Composite ETF is what it looks like by Invesco.

**VR**: Oh, no, very familiar with this name.

**DS**: Okay.

**VR**: Maybe I'll make note of it and look into it.

**DS**: That's all right. Let's see baby bonds are – sorry, are DBRG, H, I and J series, baby bonds, or are they preferred shares?

**VR**: They're preferred shares. They're perpetual cumulative preferred shares.

**DS**: Got you. Oh, there was a typo. Not - SCE, not PCE.

**VR**: SCE, yeah, Southern California Edison. In fact, we just wrote a very detailed article about this to our subscribers at HDO. Obviously, devastating wildfires in LA. So the company's common stock has experienced quite the sell off, but we're very encouraged to hold and in fact buy, in fact the preferreds have not corrected as much, so we haven't got an opportunity like a deep buying opportunity or say, but preferreds are substantially covered. The preferred dividends enjoy substantial coverage from the company's operations. In fact, since the previous fires in 2015 through 2018, that led to the bankruptcy of PCG, we have seen utility companies collect wildfire funds as part of the utility payments. In fact, California pays among the highest electricity rates in the country because of these wildfire protection funds that they're essentially accumulating.

So obviously, there's no determination of who's at fault yet. There's speculations for sure, but we don't expect SCE to be exclusively the only one that takes the blame here. Like we know the weather conditions and the other limitations in California. And SCE, over the years, has spent a substantial amount of money and resources into protecting their grid from wildfires. That includes insulation and whatnot.

So in fact, they also got positive ratings from regulators very recently, just before the wildfire. So again, the preferreds have not corrected as much and they're pretty good buying opportunities in my opinion. And they are also perpetual and cumulative, meaning any missed dividends would accumulate and will be paid in full before the company resumes payments to common shareholders.

And we saw this with PCG and even with Hawaiian Electric, which PCG actually suspended preferred dividends. But when they restored it in 2022, they paid all the missed payments fully. So it was quite encouraging to see the integrity of preferred shares being preserved in that activity. But even Hawaiian Electric, they did not miss any preferred dividends through their troubles with the wildfires that wreaked havoc in Hawaii not too long ago.

**DS**: Thanks for answering that one. I'm going to go back to the BDCs because there were so many questions there that I wanted to go back and touch on. Charles asked here, do you invest in BDCs that have a market value in excess of the net asset value? If so, who and why? So more income ETF side.

**VR**: So I mean, if you're looking at like paying a premium for buying a BDC, I mean, it needs to be a time tested blue chip BDC. So something like Ares Capital, I wouldn't mind paying that little bit of premium to buy, even Main as a matter of fact, it's a pretty good BDC. Smaller BDCs, I would really look for a discount. But it really depends, it really depends on which BDC you're looking at and why you're looking at it before deciding to buy or not buy based on the valuation alone.

**DS**: All right. We had another question actually, you mentioned Ares. I'm going to follow up with this one. In a falling interest rate environment, what is the impact on BDCs and private credit asset management firms like Ares? Is it a lower average yield or is there more to consider?

**VR**: Yeah, so that's a very interesting question. So BDCs, again, it's the spread between the borrowing and the lending cost is just one piece of the puzzle for BDCs. Loan origination activity is another significant variable here. So what we saw with rate hikes, lower lending, I mean, borrowing activity.

So BDCs are operating with lower than average leverage levels. With lower interest rates, like interest rates actually fall more, we can expect economic activity to ramp up significantly. So companies will look to borrow more money, which means a lot of deals that BDCs can make, they can expand their portfolio significantly, they can borrow more, they can add leverage at lower costs, thanks to dropping rates. And so they can continue to maintain their NII and their distributions as a result of a bigger portfolio. So again, that's the second variable, loan activity.

The third variable amongst many others is risk management and a quality underwriting. Just because like 100 companies come knocking on the door to borrow doesn't mean companies like Ares Capital will fund everybody. They're very selective.

In fact, like some BDCs, I can't remember off the top of my head, which ones they actually say that they only invest in like 5 of 100 companies that even reach out to them. They're very selective. And even after investing, they regularly monitor the investment, they monitor the health of the borrower and they have the right to dispose of the loan if they feel uncomfortable with the investment.

So it's a combination of many other factors, but these three variables, right, the spread, the risk management and the origination activity that decides what the yield is going to be. And as interest rates drop, we can expect more investors to file into quality BDCs to secure a higher yield, right? Because you'll experience like shrinking income from CDs and other money market funds.

**DS**: Here's an interesting question. So within High Dividend Opportunities, I think, somebody is asking, do you guys break it down by allocation of sectors investing across the BDCs, midstream? Some people look at REITs, other income-oriented sectors, or are they kind of like an individual basis that you kind of take each one as face value?

**VR**: No, it's grouped. So we made in a pretty diversified portfolio and like each of our contributors covers specific portions of it. But against each holding we’ll have which category it is and we try to stay within limits on each investment in security and we also recommend limits on the asset class itself. Like if you're talking about REITs, we try to have a limit to the total REIT exposure and so on, even midstream, right? Which is why when somebody asks a question, what about HESM? Well, I like it. I would want to buy it, but I think we're good with our midstream exposure right now.

And speaking about fixed income preferred stocks and baby bonds, currently, our portfolio, we're recommending a 40% – at least a 40% allocation to fixed income, and if we have like over 45 preferred stocks that we regularly cover.

**DS**: All right. Now we're at the top of the hour here. I'm squeezing one more question for you actually about the data center companies that just came in. How are utility companies affected as some cloud companies are choosing to power their own data centers now?

**VR**: Well, again, like if you look at companies like Talen Energy and Vistra, the tech companies have been buying the nuclear facilities and other power generation infrastructure from the utility companies. So we can expect, like utility companies to build small power generating capabilities and then drop down acquisition from – to the tech companies. It's a win-win scenario.

Like utilities don't have to maintain the infrastructure for 10 years or so. They can quickly realize a substantial capital gain and given the solid demand for this type of a deal, they can actually sell these facilities for top dollar.

**DS**: Yeah, absolutely. All right. Well, look, there's a reason why High Dividend Opportunities is the number one investing group on Seeking Alpha for seven years going strong. I want to thank you so much, Venkat, for coming today, walking through these slides, giving us these names. I mean, you had the funds, you had individual company stocks, everyone watching the replay. thank you for taking the time as well. Venkat, is there anything you want to say here before we jump off?

**VR**: No, I want to thank everybody for patiently listening, all great questions. I enjoy interacting with everybody on the comments section, the articles as well. Your comments and your questions definitely teach us a lot. Keep coming up with those questions for us, like it makes us think harder and come up with better insights. Thank you so much, and thanks, Daniel, for hosting. It's been a pleasure.

**DS**: Oh, it's our pleasure as well. And everyone, don't forget $49 paid trial going on now. Check it on out, High Dividend Opportunities, and we'll see you in the next webinar. Have a great week. Talk soon.

**VR**: Thank you.

**[Join High Dividend Opportunities today to get full access to all of Venkat's research!](https://seekingalpha.com/checkout/mp_1006?%2F%3Favoid_pp=true&avoid_pp=true)**

*This video’s transcript was generated by a third party. It is not curated or reviewed and is provided for convenience and informational purposes only. The accuracy and completeness of the transcript are not guaranteed.*

[seekalpha_articles](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4756089-income-strategies-in-bdcs-utilities-and-energy-stocks)
